w3c standards participate membership about w3c active groups web payments working group the mission of the web payments working group (wpwg) is to make payments easier and more secure on the web.the group focuses on delivering apis that will streamline checkout, improve payment security, and simplify and lower the cost of creating effective web checkout experiences. more info web payment security interest group the mission of the web payment security interest group is to enhance the security and interoperability of web payments. the group pursues its mission by creating a forum for organizations to define areas of collaboration and identify gaps between existing technical specifications in order to increase compatibility among different technologies. more info web authentication working group the web authentication working group aims to define a client-side api the provides strong authentication functionality to web applications. more info more groups… internationalization core working group privacy interest group accessible platform architectures working group technical architecture group verifiable claims working group web application security web platform working group web security interest group skip w3c » web commerce web payments at w3c the open web platform is transforming payments to help ensure that the web evolves to meet new industry needs, we’re convening banks, processors, regulators, card networks, e-commerce companies, telecom operators, multiple service operators (msos), hardware vendors, browser and software vendors and others who are shaping the way web payments are developed, to discuss topics such as: reducing cart abandonment rates. reducing security fraud. fostering digital payment method innovation both on the web and in-store. facilitating digital offers including loyalty programs and coupons. addressing payments in more device contexts such as in-car payments, internet of things payments and virtual reality payments. the impact of emerging regulations on web architecture and capabilities. harmonization with other standards efforts such as fido authentication, emvco tokenization and 3d secure, and others. payments at w3c the overarching goal of w3c is to create and provide open web standards. to help us achieve that goal, it’s imperative that those with interest and knowledge about web payments and security get involved with the consortium. the more voices and ideas we have, the better we can implement these standards. w3c has two main web payment-focused groups. the web payment working group works to create and implement software and apis to make web payments easier and more secure. the web payment security interest group provides a forum for discussion and implementation of new security standards. it also allows members to discover and fix gaps in interoperability of w3c’s standards and apis. by joining these w3c web payments groups, you have the ability to discuss and drive the standards produced by w3c. the conversations occurring in the groups concern both current and future standards, constantly aiming to make the web a better place to buy and sell. you have the ability to take part in guiding the future of the web. voice your concerns and ideas, and keep the future of the web bright! what are we doing right now? focusing on deliverable apis to increase the convenience and security of web payments increasing security across the field of payments on the web gathering voices to guide the next phase of payments on the web standardization is essential to continue to work towards this future of payments. shape the web as a w3c member w3c members play a significant role in shaping the web. contact w3c to learn more about the benefits of w3c membership. web payments overview web payments and w3c streamlining web payments community groups interledger payments fibo blockchain digital assets digital offers web bluetooth web nfc web payments web platform incubator footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq donate site map feedback (archive) w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply.