w3c standards participate membership about w3c site navigation about w3c w3c mission facts about w3c press and analysts sponsorships and donations fellowships and jobs contact help and faq skip w3c » about w3c » fellowships and jobs fellowships and jobs fellowships w3c fellows are employees of member organizations who join the w3c team for specific projects and usually a predetermined duration. w3c encourages member organizations to participate. current w3c fellow: pierre-antoine champin (ercim) past fellows… jobs from time to time, w3c looks for motivated people to join the w3c team. the team provides technical leadership about web technologies, organizes and manages w3c activities to reach goals within practical constraints (such as resources available), and communicates with the members and the public about the web and w3c technologies. w3c is unique among standards bodies for its full-time staff of web experts. open positions: automotive & transportation champion web accessibility development and operations lead automotive & transportation champion the world wide web consortium has opened a position (possibly part-time) to hire a global leader focusing on applying open web technologies to the automotive & transportation ecosystem. in the era of the “connected car” there has been a proliferation of networking technology to support vehicle communications. this includes in-vehicle, vehicle-to-cloud, and vehicle-smart-cities infrastructure. usage includes internal measurements, connections to remote services, infotainment, collision avoidance, and leveraging smart city applications. the scope of this position is not restricted to automotive, but also considers related enhancements required in a broader transportation ecosystem. as the convener for open web technology standards, w3c has several efforts to apply web technologies to these applications and create unique extensions required for automotive. the automotive & transportation champion drives the overall strategy of applying open web standards to the automotive sector. the champion is a thought leader who has a deep understanding of the needs of the automotive industry and a working understanding of web technology. the champion engages with other automotive thought leaders from w3c members and with technologists in w3c. by bringing these groups together, the champion identifies new technology needs for the industry and identifies technical and business approaches to satisfy those needs. responsibilities the successful candidate will develop strategies to improve automotive technologies, propose new charters within w3c to frame that work, persuade the w3c community that these technologies help both the automotive sector as well as the web at large, and provide technical guidance to resulting groups on how to achieve new web standards for automotive. the successful candidate will engage with thought leaders at w3c member companies who work in auto-tech to jointly develop a vision of how web technologies can solve problems for the industry. the successful candidate will work with people in w3c business development on outreach to the broader ecosystem of automotive industry organizations who would benefit from this work. the successful candidate will be a frequent lecturer at automotive and smart cities conferences who could add descriptions of this work to those presentations. this effort both addresses auto-tech functional needs, but also ties these needs together with key web imperatives – including accessibility, internationalization, privacy, and security. the work will be directed by the w3c industry lead, and the champion will work closely with other functions at w3c; particularly project management, strategy, and business development. the champion will also work with staff that develops technologies in companion areas, such as: smart cities, web of things, and vocabularies. requirements working knowledge of the open web technologies stack from w3c. extensive knowledge of automotive technology. long-term contacts within both the executive and technical leaders in the automotive industry. a track record of creating impactful strategies. a track record of building teams and collaboration. experience in project management. at least a bachelor’s degree or equivalent in a relevant field of study. (an mba or equivalent business experience is highly desired.) excellent oral and written communications skills in english. beneficial skills and experience the automotive & transportation champion should be familiar with the work in key auto industry consortia. some examples are: the connected car consortium (digital keys) sae (lower level in-vehicle protocols) covesa (formerly genivi) (complementary standards, specifically cvii) autosar (lower level in-vehicle protocols) iso extended vehicle/neutral server iso smart cities iso its automotive grade linux experience in engaging in standardization bodies experience in dealing with regulation aspects of auto tech robust experience in the automotive industry ability to negotiate proposals and to build trust and consensus among different stakeholder groups proficiency in one or more languages other than english. the position is opened at three of the w3c hosts: mit (usa), keio (japan), beihang (china). remote work-from-home is available. because w3c facilitates in-person meetings among global stakeholders, when the global health situation permits, this role will require the ability to travel internationally. applicants will not be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, ancestry, or national or ethnic origin. to apply, please send a cover letter, and your resume or curriculum vitae to automotive-job-applications@w3.org. this position was posted on: 15 november 2021. web accessibility development and operations lead the w3c web accessibility initiative (wai) is seeking a full-time staff member, based in europe, as a development and operations lead for work on digital accessibility standards and supporting materials and approaches. this is an opportunity for a unique individual to contribute to the vision of an accessible digital future, and help drive development of accessible next generation digital technology standards for millions of people with disabilities around the world, while working with industry, disability, research and government organizations to ensure accessibility of the web, mobile, and other web-based technologies. as the recognized leader for the technical development of the world wide web, w3c is seeking an individual with project management, operational, and fundraising experience, as well as expertise in multiple areas of digital accessibility. enthusiasm for the mission and spirit of w3c is important. responsibilities the successful candidate will be responsible for providing project management and operational oversight of key areas of wai work, such as integrating accessibility conformance approaches into next generation accessibility standards and guidelines, exploring accessibility innovations in emerging technologies, developing training materials on accessible web design and development, liaising with european standards bodies, and expanding networks and partnerships with organizations in the digital accessibility field to promote uptake of w3c standards. they will seek and help maintain follow-on funding for european projects to support accessibility of web-based technology standards. their work will be conducted in close coordination with the wai director and other members of the wai team, and with other w3c functional leads to ensure full integration into w3c’s overall work. work will take place in collaboration with chartered w3c working groups under the iterative and consensus-based w3c process, and together with w3c member organizations and the public including industry, disability organizations, the research community, government and other stakeholder groups. requirements extensive knowledge of digital accessibility, including web and mobile accessibility standards and guidelines extensive knowledge of accessibility requirements across different types of disabilities, including auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, speech and visual success in identifying funding opportunities, writing proposals, and fundraising from diverse sources including government experience managing european commission grants or contracts, including preparation of reports and reviews experience in project management, including operational supervision and support of project staff at least a bachelor’s degree or equivalent in a relevant field of study excellent oral and written communication skills in english; samples requested ability to work independently with remote colleagues in an international and highly distributed setting unrestricted european union working permit, and ability to travel internationally. beneficial skills and experience applied knowledge of wcag, uaag, atag, wai-aria, and related w3c wai specifications applied knowledge of accessibility conformance testing as an integrated part of accessibility standards and guidelines familiarity with accessibility issues in technologies that are emerging on the web, including virtual reality and internet/web of things, and risks and opportunities of artificial intelligence in digital accessibility experience with development of educational materials including training curricula familiarity with european standards bodies, and experience promoting harmonization of accessibility standards experience developing regional and local partnerships and networks to jointly promote digital accessibility ability to negotiate proposals and to build trust and consensus among different stakeholder groups proficiency in one or more languages other than english. position is grant-funded, and is affiliated with the european research consortium for informatics and mathematics (ercim), the w3c host for europe, in sophia-antipolis – france. remote work-from-home is available. because w3c facilitates in-person meetings among global stakeholders, when the global health situation permits, this role will require the ability to travel internationally. applicants will not be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, ancestry, or national or ethnic origin. to apply, please send a cover letter, and your resume or curriculum vitae to team-wai-jobs@w3.org. if you wrote to this address and did not hear back, your application may have been blocked by our spam blocking systems. we have adjusted the configuration for this address. please resend your application. this position was posted on: 29 july 2021. changes: 2021-07-29: the job description was edited after its announcement, to remove the number of years of experience required, which we deemed a possible filter that might exclude a number of people, including prevent women from applying. 2021-09-22: removed statement that work starts september 1. footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq donate site map feedback (archive) w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit , ercim , keio, beihang) usage policies apply.