w3c standards participate membership about w3c active groups web authentication working group the mission of the web authentication working group is to define a client-side api providing strong authentication functionality to web applications. join this group web application security working group the mission of the web application security working group is to develop security and policy mechanisms to improve the security of web applications, and enable secure cross-site communication. join this group web payments working group the mission of the web payments working group is to make payments easier and more secure on the web, by streamlining checkout. join this group web payments interest group the mission of the web payments interest group is to provide a forum for web payments technical discussions to identify use cases and requirements for existing and/or new specifications to ease payments on the web for users (payers) and merchants (payees), and to establish a common ground for payment service providers on the web platform. join this group skip w3c » security activity security activity security at w3c web security is a collaborative effort across the web ecosystem; w3c coordinates some of that work in its security activity. among the work we are doing to help secure web applications and web usage: web authentication working group the web authentication working group develops recommendation-track specifications defining an api, as well as signature and attestation formats which provide an asymmetric cryptography-based foundation for authentication of users to web applications. overall goals include obviating the use of shared secrets, i.e. passwords, as authentication credentials, facilitating multi-factor authentication support as well as hardware-based key storage while respecting the same origin policy. web application security webappsec is developing specifications including content security policy (csp); ui security; subresource integrity, mixed content, secure contexts, referrer policy, credential management, clear site data, and more. this work aims to enable secure mash-ups, address click-jacking, and to create a more robust web security environment through light-weight policy expression and apis. web payments the web payments interest group provides a forum for technical discussions to identify use cases and requirements for existing and/or new specifications to ease payments on the web for users (payers) and merchants (payees), and to establish a common ground for payment service providers on the web platform. security and secure authentication will be critical elements of success. the web payments working group will build standard apis enabling users to register payment instruments (such as credit cards or payment services) and select the right payment type through the browser, making payments faster, more secure, and easier, particularly on mobile devices. web cryptography working group motivated by the emergence of more complex protocols executed between web applications, the web cryptography api exposes trusted cryptographic primitives from the browser. api features include message confidentiality and authentication services, as building blocks for improved web security. related work: privacy the privacy interest group watches for ongoing privacy issues affecting the web, investigates potential areas for new privacy work, and provides guidelines and advice for addressing privacy in standards development. related work: technical architecture group (tag) the tag is responsible for the security, sanity, and layering of the overall web platform. community group: hardware based secure services how should the web interface to hardware-based secure services, and what features can be provided by hardware tokens, tees, tpms, in areas of identification, cryptography, and payments? the cg is starting work on draft apis for transaction confirmation and secure credential storage. xml security xmlsec produced three w3c recommendations: a stable interim set of 1.1 specifications. the xml signature 1.1 and xml encryption 1.1 specifications clarify and enhance the previous specifications without introducing breaking changes. xml signature properties outlines the syntax and processing rules and an associated namespace for properties to be used in xml signatures. shape the secure web as a w3c member w3c members play a significant role in shaping the web. contact w3c to learn more about the benefits of w3c membership. upcoming events past related events tpac 2019, fukuoka workshop on strong authentication & identity, dec 10-11, 2018, redmond tpac 2018, lyon workshop on permissions and user consent, sept 27-28, 2018, san diego tpac 2017, burlingame, ca web payments ig f2f, july 1, 2016 web payments wg f2f, july 2016 blockchain and the web workshop, june 29-30, 2016, mit web application security wg f2f, may 16-17, 2016, mtn. view web authentication wg f2f, may 13, 2016, berlin tpac, 19-23 september, 2016, lisbon web authentication wg f2f, february 13, 2017, san francisco hardware security cg f2f web payments ig face-to-face, 22 february 2016, san francisco, ca web payments wg face-to-face, 23-24 february 2016, san francisco, ca web authentication wg face-to-face, 4 march 2016, san francisco, ca meetings of the web application security wg, web payments ig, web payments wg, and privacy ig at tpac 26-30 october 2015, sapporo, japan web payments ig face-to-face meeting, 2-4 february, 2015, utrecht, nl webcrypto and webappsec face-to-face meetings at tpac 27-31 oct 2014 workshop: web cryptography next steps: authentication, hardware tokens and beyond (mountain view, ca, usa, 10-11 sept., 2014) workshop: web & payment: how do you want to pay? (paris, france, 24-25 march, 2014) strint: a w3c/iab workshop on strengthening the internet against pervasive monitoring (london, england, 28 february - 1 march, 2014) w3c team, security & privacy wendy seltzer, strategy lead (email) samuel weiler, privacy and security strategist footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq donate site map feedback (archive) w3c updates copyright © 2018 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply.