skip to toolbar skip log in my w3c account community & business groups current groups reports about home / current groups current groups this is the list of current community and business groups. anyone may join; w3c membership is not required. however, you must have a w3c account. use the activity dashboard to find out which groups are active. community groups are proposed and run by the community. although w3c hosts these conversations, the groups do not necessarily represent the views of the w3c membership or staff. thinking of proposing a group? first check whether one exists. current proposed past you may also wish to review the faq to prepare your proposal. then go! create a community group create a business group 364 groups found mixed reality service created on 22 march 2017 (61 participants) the mixed reality service community group will work to define an open protocol that provides a mapping between geospatial or virtual coordinates and uris. mixed reality service has numerous applications in areas as varied as gaming, autonomous vehicles, health & safety, and affordances for the disabled. more details can be found at mixedrealitysystem.org this group will expand upon the work presented at www1, and re-introduced in a lightning talk at the initial webvr meeting in october 2016. join group report a problem physical ledger created on 10 march 2017 (8 participants) the initial mission of the physical ledger community group is to develop a distributed ledger technology (dlt) that allows physical iot devices to create, disseminate and store transactional data using the web technologies. the group develops a technical specification and produce sample codes. the ideal members are those who has skills in web technologies and have interests in the iot technologies. join group report a problem open science created on 1 march 2017 (16 participants) open science has considered as a alternative of the entire research cycle to improve sustainable value of science. this group's goal is to develop various resource including documents and sources based on an existing knowledge (e.g. open access, open data, open source, etc.) for motivating and smooth landing on doing the open science. as a alternative of a existing scientific paradigm, this group is to introduce a general and standard filed guide for open science research cycle, to generate a logical alternative for conflict concern for open science, to provide a framework(or ide) to implement the open science paradigm, and to develop meta data using existing knowledge (e.g. ontology, semantic web, machine learning) join group report a problem distributed user interfaces created on 9 february 2017 (10 participants) current technology and ict models generate configurations where the same user interface can be offered through different interactions. these new technological ecosystems appear as a result of the existence of many heterogeneous devices and interaction mechanisms. consequently, new conditions and possibilities arise which not only affects the distribution of the user interfaces but also the distribution of the involved users’ interactions. thus, we move the focus from addressing the distribution of user interfaces to the distribution of the users’ interactions which poses new challenges that deserve to be explored. in this context web engineering appears as a fundamental research field since it helps to develop device-independent web applications with user interfaces capable of being distributed and accessed through different interaction modes. this fact makes web environments to be especially interesting within the scope of this community group. the main goal is to join people working on distributed interactions and share their knowledge in aspects related to new interaction paradigms and the way we can manage them in a distributed setting on the world wide web. join group report a problem schema generator created on 8 february 2017 (18 participants) the mission of the schema generator community group is to improve the availability, discovery and innovation of rdfa, microdata, json-ld and other structured data related tooling. schema generation tools pertaining to this group aim to ensure output can be validated with the w3c schema validator or similar tools. the group will assist others with discovering existing tools, updating online materials to find tools and supporting the development of new tools. the goal of this group is to foster the development of the ‘web of data’ through developer support, community engagement and advocacy. the schema generator community group will also assist by incubating support for works that include, but are not limited to, new rdf-related tools. join group report a problem data on the web best practices created on 6 february 2017 (22 participants) this group will continue the work started by the data on the web best practices working group in investigating topics such as data versioning, subsetting, data access and metadata. it will promote discussions about data on the web challenges and best practices, evaluating its benefits and any drawbacks. in so doing, the cg will collect new evidence of the dwbp implementation around the world and offer additional material that will help the adoption of the dwbp. needs for further standardization will be identified. join group report a problem https in local network created on 6 february 2017 (41 participants) the https in local network community group (cg) explores the manner of secure communication between browsers and server-capable devices in local network such as set-top boxes, network attached storages, etc. we propose that this community group clarify requirements for browsers and devices in issuing valid certificates and establishment of https and websocket connections over tls and incubate relevant specifications of apis and/or network protocols. this work has four primary purposes: improve security and privacy of communication between browsers and server-capable devices. enable web applications in secure contexts to communicate with server-capable devices in local network via xmlhttprequest, fetch api, and websocket. enable service discovery mechanisms to advertise existence of tls-enabled server-capable devices. encourage adoption and implementation of the specification by browser vendors and device manufacturers. given wider support and adequate stability, we plan to migrate the proposals generated in this community group to an appropriate standards track, for example the ietf standards track or a w3c working group, for further contributions and formal standardization. join group report a problem enterprise ethereum created on 18 january 2017 (24 participants) the mission of enterprise ethereum is building and advancing ethereum to enterprise grade technology. the group will build, promote and broadly support ethereum-based technology best practices, standards and reference architectures. join group report a problem webapi discovery created on 13 december 2016 (28 participants) a group to develop a mechanism for the automatic discovery of webapis, by extending the schema.org vocabulary. increasingly, large online platforms and services provide one or more web apis for third-party developers. moreover, many companies build webapis as their primary product (email api, sms api, etc.). this has resulted in an explosion of the number of webapis in recent years. developers spend a significant amount of time searching for suitable webapis to meet their needs. our intention is to work closely with schema.org to define a webapi-specific extension and promote usage of this extension among api owners. in the long run, our aim is to contribute this extension into the core schema.org vocabulary. to achieve these goals we are seeking feedback and collaboration from api owners, dx specialists, api description language experts and maintainers of various api catalogs. join group report a problem skos and owl for interoperabilty created on 2 december 2016 (17 participants) based on our #sdsvoc bar camp session we would like to discuss best practices for using skos and owl for interoperability join group report a problem schema.org for datasets created on 1 december 2016 (41 participants) focussed on improving interoperability between schema.org's dcat-based approach to dataset description and related approaches e.g. csvw, void, data cube, r2rml, spatialweb, dcat-ap and others including liaison to any new w3c work. join group report a problem video game schema created on 17 november 2016 (12 participants) the purpose of this group is to discuss extending the schema.org vocabulary for improved representation of video games in structured data. our goal is to create proposal(s) that will extend video game-related schemas to make them more expressive, and so enable video game publishers, video game vendors, video game streaming services and news outlets to provide data consumers with more precise information about video games than is possible with the current vocabulary. join group report a problem declarative webvr created on 22 october 2016 (41 participants) our mission is to define and describe a declarative method for developing vr content. the hope is to define a new set of html tags and css properties that will allow web developers across the globe to write vr content for display in modern browsers join group report a problem chainpoint created on 14 september 2016 (29 participants) the mission of this group is to establish a standard for creating a universally verifiable proof of any data, file, or series of events, by anchoring data to the blockchain and other sources. this allows anyone to prove the data existed at a point in time and has not been modified. the group will publish and formalize the chainpoint specification as a stable reference, maintain a test suite, and take feedback and use cases for the future evolution for the specification. the chainpoint community group will coordinate with the blockchain community group for general standardization of blockchain-related technology, and will operate according to the chainpoint cg charter. you can read more about chainpoint, its history, and goals, on our recent blog post announcing chainpoint 2.0. this group invites participants who are actively developing and deploying proof-of-existence, timestamping, and data integrity solutions, who are skilled in blockchain technologies, and who can work on use cases for chainpoint and related technologies. join group report a problem web media api created on 6 september 2016 (44 participants) media web application developers want to deploy their content on a wide and heterogeneous range of devices and platforms, e.g. televisions, set-top boxes, and mobile devices. to ensure a smooth user experience across devices, these user agents need to support a minimum set of web technologies that developers can rely on being supported. this community group plans to specify such a set of web technologies and additionally plans to provide guidance for developers and implementers e.g. on performance constraints and portability issues. see the cg charter for more information. join group report a problem pdf and open data created on 21 july 2016 (17 participants) pdf has a reputation of being bad for 'open data', but there are already features of pdf that can be used for storing and retrieving data associated with parts of a pdf file, and more features coming. a draft charter will be posted soon. join group report a problem sparql maintenance (exists) created on 1 july 2016 (15 participants) the "sparql maintenance (exists)" community group is a forum to discuss and address problems with the "exists" feature in sparql 1.1. the sparql 1.1 suite of specifications and the sparql 1.1 test suite are frozen. a process exists to record errata and that will be one input to any working group chartered to revise sparql. in the meantime, sparql is being used in real-work systems in industry and public-sector. the user community expects a high degree of conformance across implementations. the exists feature has been found to be problematic. this feature is used by the rdf data shapes working group. this community group will create cg notes and accompanying test suites to describe one or more improvements with an emphasis on maintaining compatibility. this group is not producing specifications. any tests produced by the will submitted to the rdf test suite curation cg for long-term stewardship. join group report a problem open educational resources schema created on 16 june 2016 (28 participants) our mission is to develop a universal rdf vocabulary to enhance open educational resources throughout the internet. join group report a problem smart manufacturing created on 8 june 2016 (12 participants) the mission of this community group is to extend schema.org vocabulary through introducing the necessary classes and properties for semantic description of the manufacturing capabilities of small-to-medium sized manufacturing companies. the group members come from a variety of backgrounds from the government, academia, and industry. join group report a problem accessible playlist created on 2 june 2016 (11 participants) the mission of this group is to develop a media playlist format, or an extension to an existing format such as xspf, in order to ensure playlists support all resources necessary to deliver accessible html5 media (e.g., media files in multiple formats, captions, subtitles, descriptions, chapters, metadata, and sign language). join group report a problem rdf and xml interoperability created on 1 june 2016 (32 participants) the goal of this group is to 1) identify application areas in which the combined processing of xml and rdf data and tooling is beneficial; 2) identify issues that hinder the joint usage of the two technology stacks 3) formulate best practices to resolve the issues or propose standardization topics. the goal does not only take into account the data representation formats xml and rdf, but all related technologies (e.g. for xml: xslt, xquery; for rdf: rdf schema, sparql) and selected xml (e.g. odata) or rdf vocabularies. the group should be driven by needs of industries that already deploy one or both technology stacks. this will also cover adjacent technologies like json with respect to the topics covered in this group. the outcome should focus not on a big architecture of how to work with xml and rdf, but on small building blocks (as best practices or standardization topics) that can be re-used across industries and application scenarios. join group report a problem getting math onto web pages created on 13 april 2016 (56 participants) we invite you to visit the main site for this community group (<https://w3c.github.io/mathonwebpages/>) there are many technical issues in presenting mathematics in today's open web platform, which has led to the poor access to mathematics in web pages. this is in spite of the existing de jure or de facto standards for authoring mathematics, like mathml, latex, or asciimath, which have been around for a very long time and are widely used by the mathematical and technical communities. while mathml was supposed to solve the problem of rendering mathematics on the web it lacks in both implementations and general interest from browser vendors. however, in the past decade, many math rendering tools have been pushing math on the web forward using html/css and svg. one of the identified issues is that, while browser manufacturers have continually improved and extended their html and css layout engines, the approaches to render mathematics have not been able to align with these improvements. in fact, the current approaches to math layout could be considered to be largely disjoint from the other technologies of owp. another key issue, is that exposing (and thus leveraging) semantic information of mathematical and scientific content on the web needs to move towards modern practices and standards instead of being limited to a single solution (mathml). such information is critical for accessibility, machine-readability, and re-use of mathematical content. this community group intends to look at the problems of math on the web in a very bottom-up manner. experts in this group should identify how the core owp layout engines, centered around html, svg, and css, can be re-used for the purpose of mathematical layout by mapping mathematical entities on top of these, thereby ensuring a much more efficient result, and making use of current and future owp optimization possibilities. similarly, experts should work to identify best practices for semantics from the point of view of today's successful solutions. this work should also reveal where the shortcomings are, from the mathematical layout point of view, in the details of these owp technologies, and propose improvements and possible additions to these, with the ultimate goal of reaching out to the responsible w3c working groups to make these changes. this work may also reveal new technology areas that should be specified and standardized on their own right, for example in the area of web accessibility. the ultimate goal is to pave the way for a standard, highly optimized implementation architecture, on top of which mathematical syntaxes, like latex or mathml, may be mapped to provide an efficient display of mathematical formulae. note that, although this community group will concentrate on mathematics, many other areas, e.g., science and engineering, will benefit from (and factor into) the approach and from the core architecture. join group report a problem big data europe created on 8 april 2016 (34 participants) the group to discuss technical issues arising from the big data europe project. join group report a problem hardware based secure services created on 5 april 2016 (34 participants) hardware token are offering secure services in the field of cryptographic operation, citizen identity and payment to native applications. this community group will analyze use cases where browser (and web application developers) could benefit from those secure services. the expected deliverables of this community group are (1) documented use cases, (2) technical requirements for implementing those secure services in user agents, (3) draft apis, (4) group charter - integrating suggested improvements received during the w3c hardware security wg charter proposal review. note : by hardware tokens, we mean technologies such as secure chips or secure elements, trusted execution environment, tpm.... join group report a problem data pipelining use cases created on 11 february 2016 (24 participants) gathering requirements and discussing data pipelines (think xproc but for json, html, text, xml, binary, epub...) join group report a problem meat products created on 29 january 2016 (13 participants) the mission of meat products community group is to propose, discuss, create and maintain extensions to schema.org related to meat items commonly traded internationally. join group report a problem web we can afford created on 22 january 2016 (60 participants) most scientists now seem to agree that we've entered a new epoch dubbed the "anthropocene", where the environmental consequences of human development have a tremendous impact on earth's equilibrium. those effects are already set in motion and will have far-reaching consequences in the coming years despite all the measures we could take to mitigate them (considering we simply do not fail to take action). while trying to avoid some of the consequences of the anthropocene is an issue that is well-worth striving for, another task would be to reconsider the design of things at the time of the anthropocene and that includes the web. for instance, a 2008 study by the university of dresden stated that if no measure was taken, the energy needed to power the infrastructure of the web in 2030 would be tantamount to the energy consumed by humanity in 2008. the agendas of the stakeholders who are trying to set the web forward in motion are mainly focused on adding new technological layers to the existing ones. yet, the logic behind these developments remains that of tapping into unlimited resources, not limited ones. lots of endeavors are currently focused on reshaping the web into a "web we want", a redecentralized open web fit for an enlightened digital age. those who advocate such an agenda and those who oppose it generally both share a common assumption: that enlightened or not, the future will be even more digital than the present. yet, life at the time of the anthropocene, at least in the coming decades, might not remain as pervasively digital as it is today. other efforts that see the ongoing battle for the decentralization of the web as an opportunity to “downscale” it (in particular in africa) seem to be aware of that. maybe it's time to take into account other perspectives on the future and concretely act towards building a sustain-able (tony fry) web. in other words, a web we can afford. this group would like to reconcile the development of the web and an awareness to the environmental issues by appealing to web architects and designers, eco-designers, activists, philosophers, social scientists, etc., so as to make the issue a public one to begin with, before devising a set of guidelines as a first step towards concrete action. join group report a problem universal images created on 16 december 2015 (11 participants) our goal is to provide tools and specifications for creatives and agencies to create and distribute multi-format images. these are images which contain metadata that lets them adjust to different sizes, depending of the format of the output device or the layout of the website it is used in. these images can be used to have a web-server automatically create the alternative versions needed for a responsive website. join group report a problem schema course extension created on 10 december 2015 (46 participants) this mission of this group, initiated by lrmi, is to develop an extension for schema.org concerning the discovery of any type of educational course (online/offline, long/short, scheduled/on-demand). educational course is defined as "some sequence of events and/or creative works which aims to build the knowledge, competence or ability of learners". (out of scope: information about students and their progression etc; information needed internally for course management rather than discovery). join group report a problem the tourism structured web data created on 8 december 2015 (52 participants) the mission of this group is to discuss and prepare proposals, examples, and best practice guidance for the sharing, via the web, structured data descriptions of resources associated with the tourism industry. initial focus will be on extending schema.org schemas for the improved representation of tourism related information markup and sharing. the group will seek consensus around, and support for, proposal(s) to be made to the schema.org community. join group report a problem scholarly html created on 25 november 2015 (52 participants) the mission of this group is to build a common, open format for the exchange of scholarly information. join group report a problem open knowledge-driven service-oriented system architectures and apis (kiss) created on 17 november 2015 (14 participants) w3c provide a great variety of standards that can be used to build applications that use the internet as a platform for communication and integration. the open knowledge-driven service-oriented system architectures and apis (kiss) community group is created for sharing, elaborating and evolving knowledge-driven approaches for system integration. the kiss community group takes service-oriented architecture as a main paradigm for application creation. however, it is not enough to say that there is a set of some services that can be integrated according to the application needs. the integration is facilitated with semantic descriptions of the services. furthermore, the special support components are required at system run time in order to allow dynamic composition of the services accordingly semantic representation of adjusted or new system goals. thus, the community aims to categorise different possible architectures to allow knowledge-driven approach for system integration; it provides reference architectures that also point out possible technologies for the solution implementation. the community targets different application domains and industries in order to benefit from cross-domain vision on development of knowledge-driven systems. the abbreviation of the community group highlights the integrative nature of the group (small i among k (knowledge), s (service) and s (system)). the group is managed by 6 re-electable chairs. the roles and responsibilities of the chairs go as follows: general chair: ideologist. overall synchronization between different pillars of the kiss. pr with other groups and external stakeholders. member attraction, community group development. chair for integration: integration technologies, web service composition. chair for knowledge: knowledge representation and reasoning standards and methodologies. chair for devices: embedded devices, their adoption for kiss. chair for services: web services, standards, methodologies for service definition. chair for application domains: kiss in different application domains. cross-domain learning and development. benchmarking. join group report a problem virtual reality website and metaverse created on 16 november 2015 (21 participants) this group is to start a discussion on how to level up our current world wide web to 3d and virtual reality. join group report a problem financial industry business ontology created on 13 november 2015 (55 participants) the mission of financial industry business ontology community group is to propose, discuss, create and maintain extensions to schema.org related to financial industries. join group report a problem datasheets created on 29 october 2015 (5 participants) decoupling content and data from html, by providing a datasheet language (css-like) to source, store and apply data to the html dom. the browser will be able to take the responsibility of retrieving the data from a variety of sources and rendering it. the group will outline the language and the full specifications for making this a reality. join group report a problem web archivability created on 29 october 2015 (21 participants) web archivability is interested in proposing best practices that help the web developers and designers in building web site that can be easily captured, preserved, and replayed using the web archiving tools. join group report a problem publications object model created on 29 october 2015 (14 participants) the goal of this cg is to develop specs to describe an object model for publications (think epub, pdf, ooxml, and other complex friends) that hides the complexity of package, metadata and resource access inside those formats. a secondary goal is the development and release of a multi-purpose framework, in at least javascript and if possible c++ too, implementing those specs. join group report a problem technical documentation in the semantic web created on 28 october 2015 (11 participants) the complexity of machines and software has grown dramatically in the past years. the technical documentation became a fundamental source for service technicians and professionals in their daily work. fast and focused access methods are necessary to handle massive volumes of technical documents. semantic technologies have proven their ability to improve accessibility of information (see linked open data). however, existing corpora of technical documents are usually not semantically prepared. this group shall focus on applying semantic technologies to technical documentation. all peers (individuals or projects) can state their needs (input) and offers (output). join group report a problem advancing web platform application testing created on 28 october 2015 (28 participants) this community develops test cases, requirements for testing and using the web platform. it works with existing communities and to enhance them, not replace them. join group report a problem machine learning schema created on 28 september 2015 (58 participants) this group represents a collaborative, community effort with a mission to develop, maintain, and promote standard schemas for data mining and machine learning algorithms, datasets, and experiments. our target is a community agreed schema as a basis for ontology development projects, markup languages and data exchange standards; and an extension model for the schema in the area of data mining and machine learning. the goals of this group are: to define a simple shared schema of data mining/ machine learning (dm/ml) algorithms, datasets, and experiments that may be used in many different formats: xml, rdf, owl, spreadsheet tables. collect use cases from the academic community and industry use this schema as a basis to align existing dm/ml ontologies and develop more specific ontologies with specific purposes/applications prevent a proliferation of incompatible dm/ml ontologies turn machine learning algorithms and results into linked open data promote the use of this schema, including involving stakeholders like ml tool developers apply for funding (e.g. eu cost, uk research councils, horizon2020 coordination and support actions) to organize workshops, and for dissemination join group report a problem social economy created on 11 september 2015 (21 participants) in this group we work on various web technologies needed for managing all kinds of economic relationships between individuals and organizations. while recognizing nowadays dominance of commerce, we take here more general approach which gives equal attention to all kind of non-commercial approaches, including social economy, sharing/collaborative economy, solidarity economy, informal economy etc. some of relevant topics (by no means an exhaustive list!) mobility - public transport, carsharing, ridesharing /carpooling, hitchhiking, bikesharing housing - coliving, coworking, cohousing, hospitality exchange, flatshare / wohngemeinschaft food - food hubs, food networks, producer and consumer cooperatives, community supported agriculture, gleaning, foodsharing, foodsaving, mealsharing, volkskã¼che / langar learning - skillsharing, learning groups, webinars, workshops products - toolsharing, booksharing services - volunteering, help exchange energy - energy cooperatives communication - mesh networks communities manufacturing - research and development, design, assembly, 3d printing, open source hardware, worker cooperatives, open value networks health, sports & recreation culture & entertainment we based our work on linked data technologies and assume decentralized architecture. during first year of operation (2016) we will hold regular monthly teleconference, use github for collaboration and follow other recommendations from modern tooling relevant w3c domains and activities technology & society domain social activity web payments activity active groups social ig social wg web schemas web payments ig web payments wg web payments cg credentials cg agriculture automotive ontology bde-climate action, environment, resource efficiency and raw materials bde-europe in a changing world - inclusive, innovative and reflective societies bde-food security, sustainable agriculture and forestry, marine and maritime and inland water research, and the bioeconomy bde-health, demographic change and wellbeing bde-secure, clean and efficient energy bde-smart, green and integrated transport collaborative software cv 2.0 - global resume decisions and decision-making healthcare schema vocabulary human services linked building data open linked education restaurant ontology sport schema web of sensors web of things inactive groups social business cg web currencies cg community i/o distributed tasks relevant non w3c groups open value network ouishare labs join group report a problem rdf test suite curation created on 4 september 2015 (20 participants) the purpose of this group is to provide a home for the test suites and implementation reports of various semantic web/linked data specifications. after the end of a working group, the test suites often become frozen, and it is difficult to add new tests for issues that come to light later on. similarly, some specs are implemented on a base technology, which eventually evolves (e.g. sparql 1.1 and rdf 1.1), and developers need access to updated tests. this group will create a home for forks of the various test suites that would be appropriate to act as a redirect for existing tests. test updates will be considered based on the consensus of those invested in the related specifications. implementation reports can be updated as new reports are received, giving implementations visibility. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem ldp next created on 16 july 2015 (36 participants) ldp next aims to continue the work started by the ldp working group. ldp next hopes to address the following topics that were not covered by ldp 1.0: (1) extensibility and discovery — allow clients to easily discover server affordances; (2) inlining on get and post — allow clients to request and create multiple resource with a single http request; (3) query / search over ldpcs and ldprs; (4) access control — provide a mechanism to control access to linked data platform resources. join group report a problem schema architypes created on 7 july 2015 (64 participants) the mission of this group is to discuss and prepare proposal(s) for extending schema.org schema for the improved representation of digital and physical archives and their contents. the goal being focused upon the creation and future maintenance of an archive.schema.org extension. join group report a problem sport schema created on 26 june 2015 (21 participants) the purpose of this group is to propose an expanded vocabulary for describing sporting information within schema.org. the goal is to create a proposal which will build on the existing vocabulary within schema.org updating or adding only where needed. the group should leverage existing work in the area of sport vocabularies, thinking globally with a focus on supporting the 'head' of sports vocabularies while keeping in mind the 'body' and 'tail'. join group report a problem stroke fonts created on 5 june 2015 (16 participants) an attempt to find ways of using stroke fonts in design workflows a stroked font is based on the idea of describing a collection of glyphs by their center line or the movement of a pen rather than their outlines. the center line, or skeleton, would then be styled either from inside the font, either from any software that acts downstream on the text, according to parameters that are yet to be defined. but might be based on the concept of an object following a path. this could be a very different approach than those embedded in the font formats currently in wide use. there will be a lot of issues to address for this to move forward. drawing letters from their skeleton allow users for other styling options, but also allows the computer for a larger understanding of a glyphs shape as a whole or it's important features, regions, parts. based on this understanding it woud be easier to algorithmically alter these glyphs' shapes -- while composing texts for example. it would enlarge the scope of what this group aims to do. going towards a parametric approach of designing fonts, and considering the resulting transformation of the composition process. from fonts to lettering, from typography to writing. we aim to discover, adapt or develop a way to make these fonts usable and stylable in a variety of scenarios, such as web pages, canvas based design tools, as well as pen plotters, cnc, pcp and cartography design environments. join group report a problem exposing and linking cultural heritage data created on 4 june 2015 (19 participants) the wealth of data about cultural heritage collections held within archives world-wide is of great interest for humanities research and education activities. yet this data is too often hard to find, created in isolated silos and poorly documented. large projects such as res (https://bbcarchdev.github.io/res/) , huni (https://huni.net.au), europeana (http://www.europeana.eu) and clariah (http://www.clariah.nl/) express a clear need for making that data easier to find, link and consume. the mission of this community group is to discuss which standards are needed to facilitate this process. the aim is to produce recommendations for cultural heritage data exposure using the work of res, huni, europeana and clariah as a starting point. join group report a problem healthcare schema vocabulary created on 29 may 2015 (44 participants) this community effort aims to provide medical,healthcare and life-science specialized web schemas and vocabulary through improving and extending the existing schemas, concepts, terms and definitions in schema.org vocabulary. ultimate goal is to enable the use of schema.org not only by webmasters but also in indexing health records, healthcare documents, and as a pillar open source of medical and healthcare and life science ontology/vocabulary for formalization of healthcare information. this will make healthcare and medical data on web easy to describe correctly (with their correct meaning and context), easy to expose /index so ready to be accessible and will highly improve to re-usability and exchanging in semantic way, with their correct meaning and context. the intention is not to replace existing ontologies, nor making upper level ontology nor creating yet another clinical information model/standards. the aim is mainly to provide most useful and frequently used (so, demand driven) classes and properties related to the medical and healthcare domain. within this scope all concepts are mapped as far as it's feasible to the existing terminology like snomed ct, icd, loinc, atc, rxnorm, hl7 fhir, etc. join group report a problem automotive ontology created on 8 may 2015 (88 participants) the automotive ontology working group is an informal group of individuals and corporations who want to advance the use of shared conceptual structures in the form of web ontologies for better data interoperability in the automotive industry, and this at web scale. in particular, we want to develop extension proposals for schema.org so that automotive information can be better understood by search engines and owl web ontologies for the automotive industry. also, we want to provide a forum for bringing together researchers and practitioners who are working on advancing the field. join group report a problem restaurant ontology created on 28 april 2015 (14 participants) the mission of this group is to create a new ontology to describe restaurants, and reservations to those restaurants. the ontology will support queries such as: find an asian restaurant for a business meal, near my job place. schedule a meal with friends, and add it to my calendar. find a restaurant with good reviews of people i trust. find a cheap restaurant near a cinema where i can see the last movie of my favorite director (yes, we need an ontology for cinemas too!) join group report a problem annotation ux created on 26 april 2015 (27 participants) this group will explore annotation user interface challenges, examples, and best practices. the group will produce an informative guide to annotation user experience. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem wearable web created on 24 april 2015 (12 participants) user devices are getting smaller, and more of them are now wearable: smart glasses, smart watches, and smart clothing are all working their way into our lives and onto our bodies. these devices are online, web-accessible, and increasingly interconnected. the desirable mission of this group is to investigate the technical standardization issues for web technology on wearable devices and iowt(internet of wearable things) environment. join group report a problem accessible online learning created on 10 april 2015 (132 participants) accessibility is often provided through accommodations. schools are legally obligated to provide accommodations to enrolled students with identified disabilities, based on their needs—sign language interpreters in lectures for deaf students, digital copies of textbooks for students who are blind or have reading difficulties, extended time on exams for students who need more time due to cognitive or physical disabilities. with online learning, the obligations are less clear—for example, with moocs, where students around the world are taking courses but are not enrolled at the sponsoring school or organization. also, accommodations are not well established—sign language interpreters and note takers are typically accommodations for the physical classroom. how does an organization ensure they are meeting obligations and giving online students the support they need participate fully and to be successful? providers of online learning are best off delivering courses that are accessible out-of-the-box, without the need for special accommodations. and many of the features that provide an accessible experience for people with disabilities benefit all learners. for example, lecture transcripts are an excellent tool for study and review. however, without deliberate attention to the technologies, standards, and guidelines that comprise the web platform, accessibility may be difficult to achieve, and learners with disabilities may be left behind. the activities of the accessible online learning w3c community group take place at the intersection of accessibility and online learning. we focus on reviewing current w3c resources and technologies to ensure the requirements for accessible online learning experiences are considered. we also identify areas where additional resources and technologies are needed to ensure full participation of people with disabilities in online learning experiences. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem decentralized sharing created on 8 april 2015 (21 participants) the goal is to work on interoperable sharing between decentralized platforms. the idea is not to design the perfect protocol but find a consensus that would lead to an interoperable data exchange with sync capabilities, access control, discovery, etc. join group report a problem federated infrastructures created on 2 april 2015 (18 participants) the mission of this group is to create a set of upper ontologies to describe federated infrastructures and their resources. the ontologies will support a number of use cases to semantically manage the whole life cycle of a resource: discovery, selection, reservation, provisioning, monitoring, control, termination, authentication, authorization, and trustworthiness. join group report a problem html5 korean created on 16 march 2015 (52 participants) the mission of the html5 korean community group includes the following: to facilitate focused discussion in korean of the html5 specification and of related specifications to gather comments and questions in korean about those specifications to collect information about specific use cases in korea for technologies defined in those specifications to report the results of its activities as a group back to the html working group and to the w3c membership and community to share an experience of html5 best practice in the aspect of web app developer to share up to date information for html5 industry including browser tech, web service, hybrid apps and extra. this community group is the successor of the html5 korean interest group. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem extensible data model declaration language for education created on 10 march 2015 (11 participants) xdmdl is proposed as a high level schema language that will allow people to define, share, combine, reference and profile data models. the proposal has grown out of a requirement recognised within the education community working in the scorm and xapi traditions, and it is intended to pilot the specification by demonstrating how it can help improve data interoperability between software systems designed to manage and deliver learning activities. join group report a problem exposing ieee lom metadata as linked data created on 10 march 2015 (7 participants) this community recommends an approach for exposing ieee learning object metadata (lom), a metadata standard for educational contents, as linked data. it is intended as a bridge for linkage of educational metadata into linked open data (lod). this community aims to describe a mapping of ieee lom elements to rdf based on linked data principles. join group report a problem multi-device timing created on 3 february 2015 (26 participants) timing mechanisms allow operations to be executed at the correct time. the web already has several mechanisms supporting timed operations, including settimeout and setinterval, as well as controllers for media frameworks and animations. however, the web lacks support for multi-device timing. a multi-device timing mechanism would allow timed operations across web pages hosted by different devices. multi-device timing is particularly important for the broadcasting industry, as it is the key enabler for web-based secondary device offerings. more generally, multi-device timing has wide utility in communication, collaboration and multi-screen presentation. this community group aims to define a common, multi-device, timing mechanism and a practical programming model. this will improve the web as a platform for time-sensitive, multi-device web applications. charter : http://webtiming.github.io join group report a problem html tidy advocacy created on 15 january 2015 (11 participants) the html tidy advocacy community group ("htacg") is dedicated to the continued support, development, and evolution of the html tidy command line application and library. the community in cooperation with the w3c aims to become the canonical release group for html tidy, which has been without a stable, public release since 2008. the community aspires to achieve the agreement and support of the original and current developers to this end. the community will continue to develop html tidy to adapt it to modern standards; to implement testing systems; and to implement robust build systems. the community will also promote the continued relevance of html tidy in modern software systems. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem trust & permissions created on 15 january 2015 (10 participants) as the open web platform expands, and apps are developed that access various sensitive resources, new ways of managing permissions to access these resources are likely to arise. this community group will explore and evaluate such ways based upon experience with native and hybrid platforms, and drawing upon research studies. this follows on from the paris meeting on trust and permissions held on 3-4 september 2014, see [1]. resources vary in sensitivity and timeliness, e.g. when and to whom a password should be disclosed is quite different from when access to the user’s webcam should be granted. similarly, modes of obtaining user permission vary, including asking users upfront for permission when an app is installed or first run (exemplified in android and windows) or asking users for permission when the application is attempting to use a given capability (exemplified in ios) and permission can even be obtained after the fact by inviting the user to continue or to cancel an action after it has occurred, i.e. asking for forgiveness rather than permission. in some cases, the user's actions can be taken as implicitly granting permission, such as the windows file chooser dialog. a further approach is for users to delegate decisions on permissions to a trusted 3rd party. the goal of this cg is to develop and articulate best practices for which modes of obtaining permission best match which resource types, and make these best practices available to both platform developers (browser and operating system vendors) and app developers. ideally the apis offered to apps to obtain permission to access resources should be consistent across platforms, while allowing platforms the flexibility to present a user experience that meets each platform’s needs. the scope of this community group is limited to discussion and guidance on best practices, to review draft apis from individual wg's, and pre-standardization work on promising ideas for better user experience obtaining permission, including trusted ui and trust delegation per roesner et al, see [2]. work on best practices will focus on the kinds of resources that need protection, the enumeration of good ways to obtain user permission, to dis-recommend permission models that are known to be problematic, and to recommend the preferred user experience for a given kind of resource. the main focus is on the open web platform, but packaged apps are not excluded. this group will not publish specifications. [1] http://www.w3.org/2014/07/permissions/ [2] http://research.microsoft.com/pubs/152495/user-driven-access-control-nov2011.pdf join group report a problem html5 japanese created on 14 january 2015 (66 participants) the mission of the html5 japanese community group includes the following: * to facilitate focused discussion in japanese of the html5 specification and of related specifications * to gather comments and questions in japanese about those specifications * to collect information about specific use cases in japan for technologies defined in those specifications * to report the results of its activities as a group back to the html working group and to the w3c membership and community this community group is the successor of the html5 japanese interest group. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem benchmarking for the web created on 17 december 2014 (9 participants) as web "applications" become more complex, it is felt that not only conformance but also performance of software is at issue. this is especially true for those on embedded systems such as mobile terminals. this cg will discuss how to assess performance characteristics of web browsers and web applications and how to provide a method of comparing the performance of various subsystems across different web systems. the group will deliver guidelines on these issues. join group report a problem colour blindness accessibility created on 27 november 2014 (20 participants) the aim of our project is to build new html5 specifications that can be used later by developers who wish to create more accessible websites for colour-blind people. the goal is that the specifications, that we are going to suggest, will one day become a standard of html5. according to who, 246 million people worldwide, whilst not being blind, suffer from moderate or severe visual impairment. this includes various forms of colour blindness and other visual deficiencies such as glaucoma and cataract. just like everyone else, colour-blind people use the internet for professional and private purposes. however, they often encounter accessibility problems. our challenge is to improve their situation by providing easy-to-use html5 specifications to developers. to understand, define and bring solutions to colour-blind people who interact with web interfaces, we are going to conduct user tests with them based on the eye tracking technology. this will allow us to define a corpus of usability rules, according to the level of deficiency of the colour-blind persons. these rules will help us to develop solutions, validate them with other user tests and later develop html5 specifications that can be used in css. the challenge is not only helping developers with easy-to-use html5 markups, but also make them aware of the situation and together build a better internet with more accessible websites. feel free to join this group if you: * are suffering from colour-blindness * or have field experience developing accessibility solutions for the colour-blind or other visual impairment * or have experience working with a previous submission to the w3c. join group report a problem exploration of semantic data created on 22 october 2014 (32 participants) semantic data is available widely and semantic data exploration is becoming a key activity in a range of application domains, such as government organisations, education, life science, cultural heritage, and media. several novel interfaces and interaction means for exploration of semantic data are being proposed, for example exploratory search systems, semantic data browsers, ontology/content visualisation environments and semantic wikis. although on the rise, the current solutions are still maturing and need to take into account human factors to make exploration intuitive or employ necessary computational models to aid the intuitiveness and improve the effectiveness of exploration tasks. lessons also can be learned from the commonalities and differences in exploration requirements between different domains. hence, greater benefits can be achieved by bringing together expertise from different communities, including hci, semantic web, and personalisation with the potential application domain demands. this group is an effort to bring these community together to benefit from the mutual experiences in solving some new and exciting problems. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem character description language created on 15 august 2014 (21 participants) this group will develop character description language (cdl), an xml application for stroke-based representation of any cjk character. for more information about this technology, see: * character description language (cdl) draft specification: http://www.wenlin.com/cdl/ * appendix f: “cjk strokes documentation” (unicode 6.1): http://www.unicode.org/versions/unicode6.1.0/appf.pdf join group report a problem browser sync created on 25 may 2014 (12 participants) the major browsers provide users with a means of synchronizing their data across browser instances, but the services behind that synchronization process are not controlled by users, and users don't have the ability to sync the data of their choice, or sync with other browsers. our goal is to create a specification for a browser sync process that gives users more control over their data, gives developers the ability to sync specific data for their web applications, and allows for a diverse marketplace of sync backend providers. join group report a problem robustness and archiving created on 19 may 2014 (11 participants) the goal of this community is to design web architecture and specifications to mitigate problems such as link rot, content drift, internet censorship, and denial-of-service attacks. if, after following a hyperlink, the content is missing or not what you expected, we want it to be easier to find what you were looking for. join group report a problem tv control api created on 24 april 2014 (43 participants) the convergence of internet-based iptv, video-on-demand (vod), personal video, ip multicasting video, cellular multicasting video etc. with traditional broadcasting video, satellite video and cable video is emerging on market. the technology gap between web apps and native apps is rapidly narrowing. thus a web-based application controlling various tv channels with detailed information regarding tv programs is becoming a more and more main stream tv control application for the integrated video service. furthermore, in many regions tv broadcasters are developing web applications that can overlay their channel in a hybrid broadcast/broadband environment. scope of work the w3c tv control api community group is to define an api layer that is agnostic of any underlying video sourcing technologies to enable a web-based application to: - provide epg information, including the list of tv programs and related information such as channel number, producers, directors, actors, synopsis, rating etc., - control and switch the tv sourcing based on channel identifier from epg data - interact with tv platform for presenting the tv program appropriately - interact with tv platform for presenting other supplemental content appropriately the underlying video sourcing method and technologies, the presentation technology and/or presentation application of tv program and supplemental content are all out of scope. operating guidelines this group operates under the rules of the community and business group process. all matters relating to intellectual property are governed by the community contributor license agreement (cla). all participants within this group agree that their discussions will follow the general communications policies. join group report a problem collaborative software created on 14 march 2014 (24 participants) the mission of the collaborative software community group is to provide a forum for experts in collaborative software and groupware for technical discussions, gathering use cases and requirements to align the existing formats, software, platforms, systems and technologies (e.g. wiki technology) with those used by the open web platform. the goal is to ensure that the requirements of collaborative technology and groupware can be answered, when in scope, by the recommendations published by w3c. this group is chartered to publish documents when doing so can enhance collaborative technology and groupware. the goal is to cooperate with relevant groups and to publish documents to ensure that the requirements of the collaborative software and groupware community are met. join group report a problem ortc (object real-time communications) created on 5 march 2014 (105 participants) the mission of the object real-time communications community group, is to define object-centric apis (client-side at first) to enable real-time communications in web browsers, mobile endpoints and servers. join group report a problem quick-fix support for xml created on 20 february 2014 (24 participants) sometimes an error reported against an xml document can be fixed automatically, for example if the error refers to an unexpected attribute then an automatic fix will be to delete that unexpected attribute. we want to explore the issues related to applying quick fixes (like preserving doctype declarations, entities, etc.) and determine what actions will be needed be able to apply quick fixes on a document as well as a representation language to describe these actions. quick fixes are especially interesting when we use schematron for xml validation, as in this case the quick-fix should be specified by the schema author, so we have user-defined quick fixes. imagine for example a business rule implemented in schematron that says that a list should contain between 4 and 8 items. if we determine that there are two items then a quick fix will propose to add automatically two more items to the list or if the list has 10 items then a quick fix may propose to delete two items or to split the list in two lists, etc. join group report a problem declarative linked data apps created on 18 february 2014 (64 participants) the mission of this group is to produce a specification that describes how web and linked data applications can be built using declarative technologies only, minimizing the need for source code. current software development models involve writing source code (mostly in imperative languages) and building programs from it. source code is prone to bugs, and managing it requires developers. the declarative approach is instead to push as much application logic from source code to data, so that the application can be managed and reused as data itself, while the software become generic and application-independent. this approach is related to functional languages and to processing pipelines. the generic software works as a processor: it takes the incoming request and the declarative application description and runs it through a pipeline, first retrieving the state of the requested resource (or changing it) and then rendering it into the requested format, such as a web page. this is similar to an xslt processor transforming xml documents. graphity is a production-level platform for declarative end-user linked data applications with an rdf triplestore backend. it processes ontologies describing application structure, which seemlesly combine multiple declarative technolgies: uri templates, spin sparql templates, xslt stylesheets (both server- and client-side), and rdf/post encoding. please join this group if you're interested in any practical or theoretical aspects of linked data, declarative technologies, or graphity software. join group report a problem html for email created on 29 january 2014 (116 participants) issues around the use of html in email - documenting what works, what doesn't, and considering ways to improve the situation join group report a problem webize everything created on 15 january 2014 (13 participants) "the web is extended in two ways - by adding new bits of technology to the existing stuff, and by 'webizing' existing applications and systems. webizing is really important, not only as a way of bootstrapping the web using large amount of legacy information, but because the existing systems have been researched and designed over the years and it is really important we do not lose the knowledge accrued during that process." --tim berners-lee http://www.w3.org/designissues/webize.html this group aims to webize as many existing systems and applications as possible, and is committed to producing 5 star linked data, in line with the original vision of the web. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem chinese digital publishing created on 9 january 2014 (29 participants) chinese digital publishing community group aims to provide a platform for the chinese digital publishing industry to share perspectives on chinese text layout, copyrights and other occupational standards. also we hope to help build network of contacts within the chinese digital publishing companies and the publishing industry. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem linked data models for emotion and sentiment analysis created on 7 january 2014 (42 participants) the sentiment analysis community group is a forum to promote sentiment analysis research. topics addressed are: -definition of a linked data based vocabulary for emotion and sentiment analysis. -requirements beyond text-based analysis, i.e. emotion/sentiment analysis from images, video, social network analysis, etc. -clarifying requirements and the need for consensus as e.g. systems currently use widely varying features for describing polarity values (1-5, -2/-1/0/1/2, positive/neutral/negative, good/very good etc.). -marl and onyx are vocabularies for emotion and sentiment analysis that can be taken as a starting point for discussion in the cg. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem semantic statistics created on 18 december 2013 (33 participants) this community group aims to be a forum for the statistics community and the linked data community to examine issues arising from applying semantic technologies in the statistical production process and to report on best practises in the use of statistics on the web of data. in particular the group will discuss use cases of the application of the data cube vocabulary in the production of official statistics and establish if there is a need for more standardisation of vocabularies to ensure comparability of statistics data on the web of data. potential participants in this group are members of official statistics agencies and other government bodies that produce data (e.g. administrative, geospatial, government funded research results), statisticians, researchers and anyone in the web of data community who is interested in the publication of statistical data that can lead to statistical analysis of the maximum rigour. the group will coordinate as appropriate with the government linked data wg and other relevant groups within the w3c data activity coordination group. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem svg streaming created on 15 november 2013 (6 participants) this group will work on developing guidelines and possible extensions to the svg language enabling the authoring of streamable svg content, in particular for the creation of streamable cartoon animations, synchronized graphically-rich karaoke, or synchronized graphical overlays on top of video streams. join group report a problem media resource in-band tracks created on 22 october 2013 (11 participants) this group will develop a specification defining how user agents should expose in-band tracks as html5 media element video, audio and text tracks so that web applications can access the in-band track information, through the media element, in a interoperable manner across user agent implementations. media formats of interest are mpeg-2 transport stream, webm and mpeg-4 file format. other media formats containing in-band tracks may be considered. join group report a problem open and interactive widgets for stem created on 18 october 2013 (4 participants) the goal of this group is to create a library of open source javascript interactive widgets commonly used in stem educational resources. the widgets will conform to wcag guidelines and will provide interfaces to various educational technology apis, such as tin can. examples of commonly used widgets are interactive number lines used in assessments and epub 3 etextbooks, physics simulations, interactive software code editors or graphing calculators that support sonification. join group report a problem stereoscopic 3d web created on 8 october 2013 (9 participants) the stereoscopic 3d web community group is focused on determining the requirements, available options, and use cases for the addition of stereoscopic depth into the w3c technology stack. the group also evaluates areas where s3d can be interesting to apply focusing on perception and interaction in different scenarios. the main objective is to evaluate the necessary requirements for a successful implementation of a declarative approach to stereoscopic 3d depth as part of html documents. join group report a problem traffic event ontology created on 2 october 2013 (10 participants) the mission of this group is to design a set of vocabularies and ontologies used to represent road/traffic event and accident data, i.e. involving event, vehicle, juridiction, accident, persons, environment, etc. we plan to re-use existing schema when possible. join group report a problem property graphs model and api created on 19 september 2013 (21 participants) this group will explore the property graph data model and api and decide whether this area is ripe for standardization. property graphs are used to analyze social networks and in other big data applications using nosql databases. the group may want to investigate several extensions to the data model. for example, should nodes be typed; what datatypes are allowed for property values; can properties have multiple values and should we add collection types such as sets and maps to the data model? at the same time, we need to bear in mind that there are several property graph vendors and implementations and we may not want to deviate significantly from current practice. existing property graph apis are either navigational e.g. tinkerpop or declarative e.g. neo4j. for a w3c standard we may want to design a more http and rest-oriented interface in the style of odata protocol and odata url conventions. in this style, you construct urls for collections of nodes and edges. for example, a get on http://server/nodes would return the collection of nodes on the server. a get on http://server/nodes/in(type = ‘knows’ ) would return the collection of incoming arcs with type = ‘knows’ and a get on http://server/nodes/out(type = ‘created’ ) would return the collection of outgoing arcs with type = ‘created’. once a collection of nodes or arcs is selected with the uri, query operators can be used to add functions to select properties to be returned. functions can also be used to return aggregate properties such as count and average. the group will deliver a recommendation to the w3c regarding whether and how the property graph work should be taken forward towards standardization. join group report a problem etl markup language created on 14 september 2013 (10 participants) this group is to discuss requirements for an open standard for describing etl projects, including project structure, sequencing, data flow transformations, data source connectors, for the purpose of transporting etl projects between commercial and open source etl tools. join group report a problem age labels data model created on 26 august 2013 (9 participants) the objective of the community group is to propose a technology-neutral data model for electronic content labels, i.e. age labels or content descriptors. the data model will include agreed categories and fields that may contain content-specific information. the proposal is planned to include a documentation, code snippet examples and probable queries to support implementing the data model in existing age classification contexts. the data model proposal and the documentation are planned to serve as guidelines for either existing players to implement the data model in their existing schemes (and thus providing users additional information in an interoperable way) or for new players that plan to label online content and thus reduce the risk of sunk costs. join group report a problem off/x created on 23 august 2013 (4 participants) [web] open font format for exchange -- developing a list of recommendations and best practices in font development for best compatibility with web browsers join group report a problem multi markup created on 13 august 2013 (3 participants) web service specifications and vocabularies are faced with the challenge of providing dual (or more) normative (or alternative) markups for their specifications or vocabularies. for example it is becoming common to require both an xml and json normative markup for documents and messages. this group will discuss options and propose practices for authoring and maintaining specifications and vocabularies in multiple markups. this may include, but not limited to, authoring in a 'meta markup' or automatic translation between markup formats. join group report a problem electronic governance (egov) created on 7 august 2013 (53 participants) the mission of the electronic governance community group (formerly w3c e-government interest group) is to build and strengthen the community of people who actively develop, use or promote the use of w3c technologies to improve the working of government (electronic government) and its interactions with citizens, businesses, civil society and other arms of government (electronic governance). as a part of its activities, the group will identify and discuss essential areas of technology, organizational and social change, and related policy issues. such areas include but are not limited to: access and accessibility; cloud computing; data licensing; education and outreach; government as a platform; interoperability; information sharing; innovation and innovation transfer; impact, public value and economic evaluation; knowledge management; mobile government; open government; privacy, security and sensitive data; standardization versus adaptation; transparency and accountability; whole-of-government; and others. the discussions will occur, among other places, on the group's mailing list, in teleconference seminars, and at face-to-face gatherings. on the topics with sufficient interest and motivated participants, the group will form task forces to produce technical documents and policy recommendations, reach out to relevant communities, and even encourage the formation of specialized egov-related community groups. join group report a problem accessible svg created on 17 july 2013 (39 participants) scalable vector graphics offers both opportunities and challenges for accessibility. this group will explore the different conditions and circumstances for svg use, propose clear use cases and requirements and specification text, and make tests so we can have consistent behavior in various user agents (including different screen readers). join group report a problem ubiquitous application design created on 26 june 2013 (23 participants) people are looking to use applications and services on a ubiquitous range of devices. for developers, this raises the challenge of tailoring the user experience according to the device and context in which it is used. application development teams involve a wide range of roles and skills: business requirements, information systems, usability and accessibility, graphical design and brand management, as well as the expertise required for specific target platforms. this community group seeks to bring together developers and researchers to explore and promote techniques for context aware design that separates out different aspects of design to speed development and reduce costs. we will do this through gathering and discussing techniques, together with developing open source demonstrators. join group report a problem open data directory created on 25 june 2013 (18 participants) the open data directory lists products, services and research projects that leverage linked data. currently, the directory serves as an aggregator of use cases and web sites using linked data and is expected to evolve over time in response user requirements. the directory is a community service project to foster ease-of-use and awareness of open data on the web. the directory has an easy to use web interface enabling users to list: - organization name - contact name - product(s) - service(s) - projects & use cases the open data directory periodically gathers linked data from designated sites and compiles it into a summarized view of the community. it is a purely linked data application and not another "walled garden." organizations are responsible for publishing their own linked data for the directory to consume. the open data directory includes some basic visualizations that are expected to expand over time. the site is built on open web standards and an open source data platform hosted on the cloud. all of the data is freely available for download as rdf. the open data directory is open and does not require w3c affiliation. join group report a problem web of things created on 5 june 2013 (240 participants) the aim of the web of things community group (cg) is to accelerate the adoption of web technologies as a basis for enabling services for the combination of the internet of things with rich descriptions of things and the context in which they are used. join group report a problem web app source code protection created on 5 june 2013 (16 participants) the goal of this community group is to explore solutions for protecting web app source codes. it is well-known that web page source codes are visible to the public due to the openness of the internet and the w3c standards. with the advent of html5, the web apps become popular, especially the mobile web apps. web apps can be classified as either hosted app or packaged app. the source code of packaged apps (such as the apps in firefox os or tizen os) are installed and running locally. users can easily view the source code. similarly front end source code of hosted app can also be easily seen by anyone. in this case, the publicity of source codes becomes a problem. because web developers never hope their web apps are easily copied by others. therefore, this group intends to find mechanisms of code protection for web apps, especially for packaged apps, making the source codes (e.g. html, css, javascript), as well as relevant resource files (image, audio and video, etc.) cannot be seen easily. thus, the interests of web developers will be protected. join group report a problem argument representation created on 4 june 2013 (6 participants) argument-representation's mission is to recommend a standardized representation for formal argument. it is not intended to augment xml in any other way. the group does not necessarily commit to creating a novel representation. for instance, after due consideration it could endorse an existing one or recommend accepting an existing one with minor changes. formal argument means a formalizable set of connected statements or statement-like objects intended to establish a proposition. join group report a problem algorithmic modelling created on 21 may 2013 (18 participants) the mission of this group is to propose foundational specifications relating to "algorithmic modelling": a "model", in this context, being a description of the composition and relative dynamic behaviour of the sub-parts of a system, as exemplified by the object management group's model driven architecture. the output of this group may then act as a reference point for groups requiring the use of specific types of models, conceptual and computational being two such. join group report a problem open linked education created on 21 march 2013 (64 participants) as a burgeoning and emerging area, open linked data for education is currently experiencing momentum across several initiatives and organisations including open education, linkedup, linkeduniversities or linkededucation., and the open knowledge foundation, to name just a few. we believe that we are now at a time when these efforts should converge, with this group representing a focus point for the community to collect, capture and adopt the practices that are going to be the foundation of the web of educational data. we therefore set the following set of goals for this group: 1. to collect from existing initiatives the practices currently used to share education-related data on the web. this includes the vocabularies that are employed as well as the ways in which common aspects of the data are being modelled with these vocabularies (e.g.course catalogues, resources, university facilities, research results). further statistical analysis can provide sound guidance on vocabulary usage within the educational web of data. 2. to identify common, best practices amongst those and document them (including concrete examples). 3. to facilitate the adoption of these common best practices, through direct interaction with community stakeholders, as well as through showing the benefits of the reuse of data modelling practices in application developments. while this has some similarities with the idea of “creating an ontology of education”, it is not what we are aiming to achieve. education is very broad, and our goal is therefore rather to provide common “patterns” that use existing vocabularies for the representation of common education-related data. we do expect this to create resources of interest whenever our efforts will contribute to filling a gap, and to refer to other of such resources (such as lrmi for learning resources) in other cases. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem restricted media created on 12 march 2013 (37 participants) the restricted media cg will discuss and analyze methods of restricting access to or use of web media, and their implementation on the open web. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem open government created on 8 march 2013 (81 participants) this group's mission is to discuss and prepare data and api specifications relating to open government information, which may include: * people, such as legislators * organizations, such as legislatures or committees * people's positions within organizations * areas, such as electoral districts * events, such as elections * documents, such as bills or agendas * speeches, such as those given by legislators in legislatures * votes the group will base its work on existing standards as much as possible, and re-use existing terms (classes and properties) wherever appropriate. the group may define various serializations of the specifications, including but not limited to rdf and json. the group will seek consensus around, and support for, these specifications which may then be brought to an appropriate working group to advance a specification from draft to standard. the group will coordinate as appropriate with the web schemas task force of the semantic web interest group and other relevant groups within the w3c. join group report a problem voicexml created on 27 february 2013 (7 participants) the mission of this group is to bring together voice application developers interested in voicexml. this group will not produce specifications, but will discuss use cases that may be recommended to the voicexml working group. of particular interest will be use of voicexml for mobile applications. join group report a problem interactive apis created on 26 february 2013 (16 participants) the goal of the interactive api community group is to develop an html annotation approach - similar in spirit and style to micro-formats - to equip a piece of ui (e.g., parts of a web page, such as a table or a sub-area) with a programmable interface (api). that is, the goal is to equip pieces of ui with dynamic and programmable behavior, so as to foster reuse on the web and enable a set of web-based integration scenarios that are currently more the result of hacking and less of principled software development: programmatically operating uis, extracting data, extracting application logic, and cloning pieces of uis. the intuition is to design a new type of interpreted api, the so-called interactive api (iapi), that enables (i) programmatic access to uis and (ii) interactive, live programming. the purpose of iapis is not merely to provide access to static content inside a web page, but rather to bridge between the surface web (the uis) and the deep web (common web apis and web services). the concrete results this group aims to produce are therefore: - an html annotation format for the specification of iapis; - an set of programming abstractions and code libraries for iapi programming; and - a set of supporting browser extensions for iapi parsing and instantiation. the final vision is twofold: first, to found a programming paradigm based on the reuse of uis, i.e., ui-oriented computing; second, to enable interactive, live reuse to non-programmers directly inside the web browser. join group report a problem emergency information created on 25 february 2013 (46 participants) the aim of the emergency information community group is to support the development of semantic vocabularies and common frameworks for information interoperability to ensure the meaningful sharing and aggregation of information to assist in emergency, crisis, and humanitarian functions. this community group provides a forum for the exchange of ideas and experiences, scenarios and requirements, and the development of community specifications to drive future formal standardisation. join group report a problem haptic interaction on the web created on 19 february 2013 (11 participants) haptic feedback can offer significant benefits in terms of accessibility and usability of touch-based interfaces. many mobile devices, such as smart phones and tablets, incorporate built in vibration feedback. the w3c vibration api [1] will allow web application developers to utilize vibration effects via javascript and some have previously proposed the addition of haptic properties to css [2] [3]. as new haptic technologies are expected to emerge in the near term, now is the time to bring interested parties from the research, user, and vendor communities together to examine and discuss standardization, accessibility, authoring, and user experience. [1] http://www.w3.org/tr/vibration/ [2] https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2010-june/013334.html [3] http://chrisnager.com/touchable-textures-with-css-can-you-feel-me/ join group report a problem accessibility in india created on 13 february 2013 (118 participants) this group focuses on accessibility awareness in india. with india, being an it, it is important to look at accessibility and build awareness on the web and mobile and ebooks. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem web audio developers created on 9 february 2013 (60 participants) the web audio developers community group brings together hackers and developers interested in using the emerging web audio api. by providing community support on using the api and surfacing issues with the draft standard, it complements the work of the w3c audio working group where the specification is being developed. this group will not create specifications. join group report a problem open data spain created on 10 december 2012 (53 participants) forum where spanish public bodies, citizens and industry involved in open data and psi reuse are gathered together to discuss and seize synergies among them. this group is an evolution of the "grupo zaragoza", a non-profit community, composed of all-governmental-level administrations and key players in psi reuse, which has boosted the open data in spain. future and ongoing open data initiatives may reuse this group's work in terms of technology, formats, ontologies, tools, guidelines, etc. this group will not create specifications. join group report a problem semantic open data created on 10 december 2012 (21 participants) this group intends to explore ways to leverage odata as a contributor to the semantic web vision and to help achieve a common understanding of both technologies as well as their relationship to each other. join group report a problem web dev data created on 14 november 2012 (10 participants) this group intends to analyse web development data from around the world and publish monthly reports. by leveraging open source tools, we hope to create an open source project to do this. this group does not plan to publish specifications that require patent commitments. join group report a problem extensible web created on 11 november 2012 (44 participants) the extensible web community group is an incubator for web technologies enabling authors to extends the native web technologies via scripting (ie: shims & polyfills). join group report a problem customer experience digital data created on 5 november 2012 (108 participants) the customer experience digital data community group will work on reviewing and upgrading the w3c member submission in customer experience digital data, starting with the customer experience digital data acquisition submission linked here (http://www.w3.org/submission/2012/04/). the group will also focus on developing connectivity between the specification and the data privacy efforts in the industry, including the w3c tracking protection workgroup. the goal is to upgrade the member submission specification via this community group and issue a community group final specification. join group report a problem cartography created on 1 november 2012 (9 participants) the mission of this group is to explore how open data and metadata may be realised through animated maps and games that facilitate forecasting and understanding of risk across knowledge domains. and to help create the necessary tools that are easy to use and produce multimodal accessible resources that engage. join group report a problem change tracking markup created on 31 october 2012 (22 participants) the mission of this group is to develop a proto-spec for marking up changes to documents. join group report a problem svg mapping created on 18 october 2012 (11 participants) the mission of svg mapping community group (svgmapcg) is to build requirements for svg based web mapping through a discussion of use cases regarding map services. one of the key technologies for svg web mapping is dynamic tiling & layering, which realizes zoom and pan display of maps in an efficient manner. the other technologies for the mapping (e.g. shared path, vector effects and etc.) are also necessary. although these functionalities will be standardized as part of svg 2 in svg wg, the focus of discussion is for general use and the discussion may lack particular aspects for map services. therefore, our main scope is to investigate whether these generic functions are enough or not to resolve challenges inherent in mapping, and to provide wgs (e.g. svg and geolocation) feedback from our observation. envisioned issues for web mapping are a common coordinate system for map contents and a projection. another issue is a relationship to other gis communities (openlayers, open street map, wms, and etc.) outside w3c. they have developed map-related standards and frameworks, and we need to clarify our interrelationship and consider collaboration if necessary. this group will not create specifications. join group report a problem web performance created on 16 october 2012 (22 participants) the goal of the web performance is to produce a general guideline to help people who work in the web field increasing their websites' performances. from the server abilities and rapidity to the analysis of the website's code (whatever would the markup language be), we try to help web designers making faster websites. join group report a problem sdshare created on 8 october 2012 (12 participants) sdshare is a highly restful protocol for synchronization of rdf (and potentially other) data, by publishing feeds of data changes as atom feeds. join group report a problem places created on 5 october 2012 (19 participants) place data has many uses, including augmented reality browsers, gazetteers, location-based social networking games, geocaching, mapping, navigation systems, and many others. in addition, the group will explore how the geospatial industry could best use, influence and contribute to web standards. join group report a problem private user agent created on 23 september 2012 (6 participants) the private user agent community group is chartered to improve user privacy and user control by designing the user agent to minimize fingerprinting and to improve the control the user has over information shared over the web and to improve the security of the user agent in these regards. the group seeks to standardize the designs necessary to achieve these goals, to develop extensions designed for privacy to mitigate inevitable losses of functionality, to foster consideration of privacy in the design of other web standards, and to discuss and develop implementations and test suits. mechanisms for expressing user privacy preferences to servers and content provides are outside the scope of this group. join group report a problem schema bib extend created on 13 september 2012 (74 participants) the mission of this group is to discuss and prepare proposal(s) for extending schema.org schemas for the improved representation of bibliographic information markup and sharing. the group will seek consensus around, and support for, proposal(s) to the w3c webschemas group. this community group will not, itself, produce technical specifications. join group report a problem law and technology created on 7 august 2012 (27 participants) the mission of the law and technology community group is to serve as a place for legal professionals and those interested in the law to share information on how current laws affect the implementation of new web technologies as well as how those new technologies can affect the law. join group report a problem locations and addresses created on 6 august 2012 (49 participants) there have been several recent efforts to standardize vocabularies for describing locations, using existing geometry specifications. geosparql, neogeo and the eu isa programme's location core vocabulary join schema.org's vocabulary and more. is there a set of use cases that an usefully be served by greater collaboration in this space? what problems remain? where are the awkward edges that need to be knocked into shape? the mission of the location and addresses community group is to review the existing efforts in this space (notably geosparql, neogeo, the eu's inspire directive and schema.org) and assess whether any use cases would be served by harmonization and/or new standardization work. this group may produce specifications or use cases and requirements documents, which may be proposed for adoption by the government linked data (gld) working group consistent with its charter (http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/charter). join group report a problem mobile accessibility created on 20 july 2012 (39 participants) the mission of this group is the discussion and investigation of the intersection of mobile and accessibility. a place to discuss emerging efforts, document needs and requirements and investigate emergent techniques and best practices. this group will not be developing any specifications. join group report a problem microxml created on 16 july 2012 (31 participants) microxml is a subset of xml intended for use in contexts where full xml is, or is perceived to be, too large and complex. microxml provides a set of rules for defining markup languages intended for use in encoding data objects, and specifies behavior for certain software modules that access them. join group report a problem xml hypermedia created on 16 july 2012 (6 participants) discuss possible benefits and implications of adding hypermedia affordance components to the xml language. specifically, but not limited to discussion of bugzilla bug# 17659. join group report a problem development linked data created on 8 july 2012 (26 participants) data is commonly considered as a new kind of fuel powering economical, cultural and societal changes. from e-governance to smart cities, many examples can be found to argue for the value of open and connected data. by turning the web into a data publishing platform linked data is a key enabling technology for this. it has yet to be kept in mind that as of 2012 65% of the world does not have access to the web and are thus deprived from linked data. furthermore is this population sorely in need for the changes data-driven societies benefit from. this community group is there to discuss some important questions such as: * how can development related data be published as linked data? * what kind of data is out there and what is relevant to drive societal changes in underprivileged countries? * how can those without web access can consume open data set published as linked open data? * how can the linked data principles be revised to be applicable in web-less contexts? this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem web history created on 24 may 2012 (51 participants) this group gathers people interested in the history of the world wide web: how it was invented, what was out there that made it possible, and what happened in its early years. our main goal is to collect and preserve valuable information (software, documents, testimonials) before it is lost. this group will not produce specifications. join group report a problem argumentation created on 19 may 2012 (20 participants) the argumentation community group will facilitate and promote the use of the web for all forms of argumentation. the group will discuss and design both argumentation representation formats and systems. join group report a problem client and server javascript apis created on 11 may 2012 (35 participants) rest seven's rule was "code on demand," meaning the ability for the server to deliver code able to run on the client. some, to use the same code everywhere, tried to do it with java, .net (activex). today, even flash is fading out to let this place to javascript. html5 and offline support contributed in the creation of a bunch of apis which only made sense on server-side in first place: file/filesystem, workers, sockets, storage/session, blob, imagedata. most of those apis, and even the already existing xmlhttprequest (now in version 2) have been designed from the beginning to be usable via either synchronous or asynchronous apis from the very early stages (synchronous is not blocking any more the user interface in browsers when used in workers). now that the server-side javascript is rising again either in synchronous and asynchronous implementations, it is time, if we really want interoperable code/libraries/modules, to make those apis taking into account the server-side context, and then on the other end, to push server-side javascript implementations to support them. commonjs started a great project, it is now time to make its ambitions real. join group report a problem technical architecture created on 24 april 2012 (21 participants) this group is an open forum for discussing web architecture, such as that discussed by the w3c technical architecture group (tag). web architecture refers to the underlying principles that should be adhered to by web components (apis/markup), whether developed inside or outside w3c. the architecture captures principles that affect such things as understandability, interoperability, scalability, accessibility, and internationalization. we expect to have a strong working relationship with the w3c tag. join group report a problem expath created on 24 april 2012 (31 participants) the mission of this group is to lead to extension of xpath and all related technologies (xslt, xquery, xproc, xforms, xml schema). join group report a problem microposts created on 24 april 2012 (17 participants) the purpose of this group is to connect the multidisciplinary (social science, semantic web, information retrieval, ...) research community interested in the study and treatment of low-effort user generated content on the web (tweets, checkins, status messages, likes,...), called microposts. the objective of this community is to develop ways to leverage this massively growing, yet informationally poor source of data on the web for different practical use cases. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem african developers taking on the web created on 11 april 2012 (22 participants) the mission of this group is to create and support a pan-african community of competent, internationally certified it professionals focused on developing the it web and mobile based tools for african agriculture, business, education, health care, government and general social needs. join group report a problem wai-engage: web accessibility created on 6 april 2012 (75 participants) wai-engage is an open forum for responsive development of material supporting web accessibility, including support for web accessibility initiative (wai) resources. developers, designers, project leaders, administrators, scholars, producers and consumers with disabilities, and anyone interested in accessibility -- please join us and share your perspectives to help build resources that will be useful to the broader community. we welcome everyone to this community. there is no time commitment or experience expected. this is a place to suggest, share, and develop ideas. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem speech api created on 3 april 2012 (64 participants) the goal and scope of this community group is to produce a javascript speech api that supports the majority of use-cases in the the speech incubator group's final report [1], but is a simplified subset api, such as this proposal [2]. for this initial specification, we believe that a simplified subset api will accelerate implementation, interoperability testing, standardization and ultimately developer adoption. this javascript speech api will enable web developers to incorporate scripts into their web pages that can generate text-to-speech output and can use speech recognition as an input for forms, continuous dictation and control. specification of html markup and a network speech protocol are out-of-scope of this community group. [1] http://www.w3.org/2005/incubator/htmlspeech/xgr-htmlspeech/ [2] http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-webapps/2011octdec/att-1696/speechapi.html join group report a problem web application store created on 30 march 2012 (15 participants) since the launch of apple's app store in 2008, developers found a market delivery channel that greatly reduced time-to-market and time-to-payment and provided a direct channel to consumers. the result: users started buying more and more smartphones, accessing app stores and downloading billions upon billions of apps. at same reason, web developers are also expressing interest in an app store model for the web that would enable them to get paid for their efforts without having to abandon web development in exchange for proprietary silos. the purpose for this web application store community group is to discuss about the web application store, related technologies, and various issues for open web application store. this web application store cg's activities include: * tracking specifications and implementations related to web application store. * refining use cases to communicate specific needs of web application store. * discussing technological issues related to web apps & web application store * suggesting refinements or fixes to existing specifications to better meet the needs of the web application development community * evangelizing specifications to browser vendors. * documenting how to best use open web standards for web application store * evangelizing open web standards and best practices for web application store anyone can join the web application store community group. join group report a problem webapps ui created on 28 march 2012 (13 participants) web applications employ a range of ui methods from css, svg, html forms, canvas and aria. our focus is to ensure that ui methods are accessible, maintainable and of high quality across vendors and specifications. we use wcag and atag to examine cross-specification techniques and identify issues with implementations and associated specifications. join group report a problem multilingual web sites created on 19 march 2012 (28 participants) the objective is to produce specifications to facilitate the use and creation of multilingual web sites. join group report a problem web observatory created on 16 march 2012 (54 participants) the sister organisation of w3c, the web science trust (www.webscience.org) proposes to create a global "web observatory". the open data movement and the transparency agenda are successfully advocating the release of very large institutional and commercial data sets describing social phenomena, economic indicators and geographic trends. this proliferation of data represents great opportunity for researchers and industry but this data abundance also threatens to make it ever more difficult to locate, analyse, compare and interpret useful information in a consistent and reliable way; a situation which can only get worse unless we can help stakeholders perform useful analysis rather than drowning in a sea of data. the web observatory will offer an institutional framework to promote the use of w3c and other standards in the development of; semantic catalogues to globally locate existing data sets, collection systems to gather new global data sets, and analytics tools and methodologies to analyse these data sets. this community group seeks to articulate the business and technical requirements for the web observatory. join group report a problem film industry created on 15 march 2012 (13 participants) the aim of the film industry community group is to explore the implementation of open web platform and semantic web technologies within the professional world of filmmaking. join group report a problem user identity on the web created on 14 march 2012 (25 participants) currently, more and more services are created on the web and require information about you, me, all of us. therefore, users have to give away a lot of information about themselves to many different services. the point is that the users lose control of their identity on the web, by filling a lot of forms (e.g., through subscriptions). privacy on the internet is extremely important and must remain. personal information is used by services we, sometimes, don't even know about, and it is a real problem. the aim of this group would be to think about new ways to identify individuals over the internet using trusted web based identities embedded directly into the core protocols of the web. at the same time it is important to maintain equilibrium between total privacy and providing information when needed, which means, when the user wants to. join group report a problem print and page layout created on 6 march 2012 (46 participants) the print & page layout community group is open to all aspects of page layout theory and practice. we can and will cover everything from the crystal goblet through to specifications and on to the nitty-gritty of writing stylesheets. you will find xsl-fo and css discussed here, but you will also find other stylesheet languages, and all are equally welcome. join group report a problem css selectors as fragment identifiers created on 2 march 2012 (26 participants) decades after the web emerged, hypertext creators pointing to a specific place in a resource they don't control still have to hope or beg that there's a convenient link anchor placed there by the author. css selectors let us point anywhere in a document - let's bring them to hypertext! you can see a very rough initial plan of this at http://simonstl.com/articles/cssfragid.html. join group report a problem semantic sensor networks created on 22 february 2012 (47 participants) to continue the work of the semantic sensor networks incubator group (the ssn-xg) in defining and using ontologies and mappings for querying, managing and understanding sensors, sensor networks and observations. this community group will also serve as a community and access point for ontologies (such as the group's ssn ontology) and technologies developed for semantic sensor networks. join group report a problem responsive issues created on 20 february 2012 (302 participants) our goal is a markup-based means of delivering alternate image sources based on device capabilities, to prevent wasted bandwidth and optimize display for both screen and print. note: when the group expanded its scope in november 2014, it changed the name from "responsive images" to "responsive issues." join group report a problem html5 specifications created on 14 february 2012 (77 participants) a group addresses and discusses proposed ideas for html5 specifications. join group report a problem xml error recovery created on 12 february 2012 (13 participants) this group's purpose is the discussion of applying error recovery parsing methods inspired from html to xml. join group report a problem decisions and decision-making created on 25 january 2012 (19 participants) the group will discuss and tentatively specify a format for representing decisions, i.e. decision information, so they can be used across diverse systems. because of the great variety of applications and decision technologies, this format should focus on the generic, core components of decisions and decision-making information. decisions are a source of information in themselves, i.e. each decision that is made is in itself a piece of information the may need to be stored, tracked, shared, combined and compared to other decisions. the same holds for information about the decision process. in particular, this group will discuss and study how semantic web technologies can facilitate the representation and sharing of decision information. ultimately, the aim of the group is to study and develop technologies and methods to support better, rapid, and agile decision making. join group report a problem smart phone application developer created on 8 december 2011 (10 participants) this group will help developers create internet based smart phone applications. participants will collaborate and code to make the web equally and easily accessible through smart phones. this group will document the new research papers created by group members regarding internet based phone applications. join group report a problem e-learning: evolving technologies and growing reach created on 8 december 2011 (47 participants) this community group focuses on e-learning. participants will discuss new and existing technologies for e-learning and m-learning. the group will also talk about the reach, social change and impact of e-learning. join group report a problem accessible infographics created on 6 december 2011 (44 participants) the goal of the accessible infographics cg is to make information graphics, like bar charts and maps, as accessible as possible to all. the plan is to bring together experts and pioneers in the fields of data visualization and accessibility, to create use cases and requirements in a systematic manner, to devise and propose additions to svg that improve accessible options for data in that and other graphics formats, and to document best practices and tutorials for making infographics accessible. join group report a problem distributed tasks created on 4 december 2011 (6 participants) common ground for people developing various collaboration software with notion of "tasks." aiming for increasing interoperability across all such software and improving experience of a person contributing to big number of projects. emphasis on interoperability, portability and extensibility! join group report a problem mobile web in indian languages created on 30 november 2011 (9 participants) the w3c india office is setting up this community group on mobile web in indian languages with the objective of addressing the issues concerning with the enablement of mobile, smartphones and next generation wireless devices with indian languages support, seamless sms and mms sending and receiving in indian language , uniform user experience on the mobile through using indian languages, and access to indian languages websites from mobiles. the goal is to achieve seamless access and operation irrespective of the mobile manufacturers and service providers. this group will help in building the ecosystem for enhancing the penetration of mobiles in the country to the rural areas using the indian languages enablement. the group will also explore and develop the indian language requirements in existing and future mobile communication standards. join group report a problem network-friendly app and webapp best practices created on 21 november 2011 (22 participants) welcome to the w3c community group for network friendly applications! in this group, we are looking for contributions to help us reach the widest possible consensus in a critical area facing the mobile industry. smartphones and smartphone applications have established themselves as a major success story in the industry over the past few years. as the number of smartphones and smartphone applications has increased the industry has learnt much on how to create efficient applications for smartphones. the gsma has created a set of guidelines for application developers that will enable improvements across a number of areas including application connectivity, power consumption, network reliability and security. by following these guidelines - developers will be better equipped to create fit-for-purpose apps - users will experience more responsive and reliable apps and improved battery life - mobile operators will see a reduced strain on their networks for a copy of these guidelines check out http://www.gsma.com/go/download/file=gsmasmarterappsforsmarterphones0112v.0.14.pdf gsma intends to issue an update of the above document by end of 2012. as such, it has compiled a list of items for inclusion in the update after consulting gsma’s members; they include network operators and device manufactures. to ensure the new update will have the widest possible support by all communities across the industry, we have created a community group called ‘network friendly developer guidelines’ under auspices of w3c. the new cg is formed with a view to engage other developers or interested parties and reach a consensus as what needs to be added beyond what has already been proposed by gsma. the proposed items for inclusion are embedded in this document. check out http://www.w3.org/community/networkfriendly/wiki/images/b/be/proposed_items_for_inclusion_in_the_update.doc to download the current suggestions as approved by gsma. as the update will be released by end of 2012, all changes should be agreed in time before the actual work of writing and editing the document starts in earnest and no later than 1st september 2012. that means the outcome of activities in the cg would be a list of items for inclusion beyond what has already been proposed by gsma. the outcome would be considered by gsma for inclusion when updating the document. in brief, the goal and milestones to bear in mind are as follows. goal to produce a set of items for inclusion in the updated document beyond what has already been suggested (see the enclosed document) key milestones 19th april to 10th august 2012 to discuss the base document and the proposed updates and reach consensus in the cg on any additional proposals 11th august to 18th august is the cooling off period to take on board last minute suggestions and final touches 19th august to 31st august, gsma will consider the final input from cg prior to commencing work on the update in september as a rule of thumb, the entire process would be transparent and inclusive to reach agreement by discussion. in the unlikely event of not reaching consensus on burning issues, the (yet to be named) cg chair would make the final decision only as a last resort. you are invited to actively engage with the process to make the resulting document much better than its debut version. we welcome views and contribution with an open mind. join group report a problem data driven standards created on 7 november 2011 (16 participants) the data driven standards community group focuses on researching, analyzing and publicly documenting current usage patterns on the internet. inspired by the microformats process, the goal of this group is to enlighten standards development with real-world data. this group will collect and report data from large web crawls, produce detailed reports on protocol usage across the internet, document yearly changes in usage patterns and promote findings that demonstrate that the current direction of a particular specification should be changed based on publicly available data. all data, research, and analysis will be made publicly available to ensure the scientific rigor of the findings. the group will be a collection of search engine companies, academic researchers, hobbyists, protocol designers and specification editors in search of data that will guide the internet toward a brighter future. join group report a problem cloud computing created on 3 november 2011 (44 participants) the group will examine and create specifications related to distributed computation and storage, with an xml network transport layer and possible mapping to rdf. join group report a problem script library created on 2 november 2011 (13 participants) a forum for improved communication between script library authors and users, and w3c working groups working on relevant specifications. join group report a problem do-not-track created on 28 october 2011 (14 participants) this community group, started by lee tien of the electronic frontier foundation, is intended as a companion to the tracking protection working group with the goal of enabling consumer and privacy groups to participate meaningfully in the wg even if they do not participate in wg conference calls, mailing lists, or in-person workshops. in the short term, this community group's major goal will be to analyze and respond to the first public working draft, which is expected soon. join group report a problem svg glyphs for opentype created on 27 october 2011 (14 participants) extension of opentype to allow multicolor, animated svg glyphs while reusing the opentype layout facilities. join group report a problem timed text created on 14 october 2011 (10 participants) a number of organisations are now working with the ttml specification, and a degree of parallel discussion is happening. some of that discussion is behind closed doors. there is a need to cross fertilize such groups so that the standard does not diverge, in addition new features and errata are being developed. this group is established to act as a forum for individuals, companies and consortia that are working with the ttml specification to address such issues. the core activities of the group will be as follows: - to act as a central forum for technical questions and answers on ttml - to act as a point of coordination for extensions and features being created in other organizations. - to identify issues, gaps and errata in the specification for future standardization. - support the timed text working group (ttwg)) to develop a community standard which updates ttml 1.0 to address issues, gaps, and errata. - to develop and document tutorials, examples and best practice workflows - to host example code, templates, test data, and implementation code join group report a problem networked data created on 12 october 2011 (14 participants) the recent years have shown the need to deal with networked data in large-scale, distributed settings. not only must the systems be scalable, elastic and performant, but also address *ability (usability, manageability, etc.). one key component is doing it the webby way. the web is the leading concrete exemplar of restful design, being the result of posthumous analysis of what was already working with uris, http and html for a system of interlinked documents. unfortunately the machine equivalent of html is still emerging. linkeddata has achieved some powerful results; automated navigation by querying the linked open data cloud shows some of the potential. however many systems also need to evolve and be evolved. this can be expressed as 'service capability' and also needs to be supported with consistency. this should aim to eliminate the wide range of non-interoperable approaches muddling the current landscape of rest apis through exploiting hypermedia concepts. the networked data community group aims to provide a forum for collecting use cases including but not limited to the fields of science data (such as biology, astronomy, etc.), economics data (financial markets, etc.), health care, configuration and systems management, green it, and smart infrastructures (cities, etc.). based on the collection of use cases the cg will derive requirements and write up best practices for dealing with the dynamics of the data. join group report a problem user interaction and experience created on 26 september 2011 (18 participants) as the number of web applications is exponential, the capability to link user activity from application to another is also growing. however, these connections are more or less relying on specific models and apis and set-up of a new connected application needs a tons of one-to-one configuration. this group will try to gather from these experience in order to build a more coherent model for sharing - semantically enabled & privacy safe - interaction data in order to provide better user experience among web applications. join group report a problem vivo open research networking created on 9 september 2011 (8 participants) vivo (http://vivoweb.org, http://vivo.sourceforge.net) is an open source semantic web platform and ontology for representing researchers and their associated training, background, activities, organizations, and outputs including publications and research resources. vivo publishes linked open data integrated from a variety of authoritative sources as well as from direct user input. this group will bring together developers, ontologists, adopters, outreach and policy strategists, end users, and members of closely related communities (e.g., http://orcid.org, https://www.eagle-i.org/home/) for discussion on the use of semantic data for research representation and networking, related tools, and opportunities for collaboration and synergy. join group report a problem high-performance computing created on 6 september 2011 (36 participants) this community group is focused on bringing high performance computing (hpc) to the web. in particular, we're interested in making the computing and data resources that underlie simulation science, scientific computing, and data-centric science easily accessible through web browsers. our members are working on apis that expose hpc resources via the web, as well as gateways and web applications that take advantage of these apis. the major goal of this community is to accelerate the pace of development of web-based hpc applications. recognizing that we can build on each other's work, and that a consistent approach to developing such tools can enable features that require communication across multiple computing centers, we are interested in sharing technologies and ideas. join group report a problem unhosted web created on 6 september 2011 (24 participants) we propose per-user cross-origin cloud storage, much in the sense described in http://www.w3.org/designissues/cloudstorage.html we are a non-profit project and have so far defined a first draft of our standard for this: http://unhosted.org/spec/dav/0.1 we have researched a lot of aspects in the last few months, and are about move to version 0.2 of our standard. people are starting to implement this with significant user base sizes, and other people are starting to develop apps that rely on it, which is now would be a good time to make this into a w3c cg. join group report a problem community i/o created on 1 september 2011 (11 participants) this group will focus on applying current information technologies to create a foundation of infrastructure for organizing the flow of resources and support with services within human community. all peers (individuals or projects) can state their needs (input) and offers (output). using semantic web, federated social web and other related technologies people can develop various approaches of connecting those needs and offers. including variants with and without use of currencies. join group report a problem web crypto api created on 31 august 2011 (27 participants) this group discusses web crypto apis for signing the message by the user certificate issuing from the certificate authority for ssl communications. it is based on http://html5.creation.net/webcrypto-api/ join group report a problem native web apps created on 19 august 2011 (25 participants) a community driven take on the concepts driving the widgets and device apis. collectively understood these technologies form the basis for installable web apps. living in a secured context these applications give the web access to traditionally native capabilities. join group report a problem html editing apis created on 16 august 2011 (18 participants) a group to work on apis and other functionality related to rich-text html editing, such as (1) the contenteditable and designmode attributes (2)the execcommand(), querycommandenabled(), querycommandindeterm(), querycommandstate(), querycommandsupported(), and querycommandvalue() methods on the document interface (3) what exact effect user actions (such as typing text or hitting enter) should have on rich-text editable regions (4) the selection interface (5) spellcheck for rich-text editable regions, and (6) other functionality related to the foregoing. the group is expected to work on writing high-quality, detailed technical specifications suited for implementation by major browsers. it will start work with the preliminary specification hosted at http://aryeh.name/spec/editing/editing.html, and later add the selection part of http://html5.org/specs/dom-range.html, both of which are currently developed entirely outside the w3c and are not close to interoperable implementation. the group's deliverables are expected to be submitted to the recommendation track in the webapps wg after they mature sufficiently. join group report a problem web skill profiles created on 16 august 2011 (8 participants) this group has the mission to extend the discussion and development of the web skill profiles originally developed by iwa/hwg (http://www.skillprofiles.eu) based on the eu framework for education and outreach. join group report a problem semantic news created on 8 july 2011 (39 participants) the semantic news community group is a forum for exploring the intersection of w3c semantic technologies and news gathering, production, distribution and consumption. it will focus on a common representation for abstract ideas in the news domain such as a 'news event' or a domain ontology for news. this includes the following subject areas: 1. review, test and comment on existing and proposed standards for semantic technologies in the news domain. 2. encourage the reuse of well-known datasets and ontologies and propose mappings between them as required. 3. best practices for publishing, exchanging and linking data, including use cases. 4. development of prototypes to help build the business case for this approach. 5. discuss design principles of schemas and ontologies. join group report a problem web education created on 29 june 2011 (119 participants) the web education community group (cg) aims to evolve the web and improve the overall skill set of the web industry by improving the quality of available web education resources and courses around the world. to do this, we are engaging in several activities, which are the responsibilities of different projects inside the cg: 1. learning material: creating a comprehensive series of tutorial articles to teach all the w3c technologies, which will constantly be updated so that it remains current and best practice. the main basis of this is currently the web standards curriculum. 2. curriculum: creating a series of structured courses based on the learning material, which educators from around the world can use to teach web design and development in a consistent, effective way. 3. outreach: contacting educators, companies and trainers and getting them to adopt our learning material and curricula. 4. training and certification: training the trainers to help them teach web design and development more effectively, and formulating a plan to, and researching the feasibility of, partnering with them to provide w3c endorsed qualifications. 5. membership and policy: dealing with issues of membership and policy. 6. international education: different groups responsible for outreach and translations into specific languages to serve groups for whom english is not the primary language. for more information, follow the relevant links in the pages list. please note that the web education community group will not be developing any specifications. join group report a problem xml performance created on 29 june 2011 (8 participants) the mission of the xml performance community group is to determine the requirements, use cases to get performance measurements of the whole xml technology stack. one of the goal is to be able to understand how xml (versus other technologies) could be used as ground to make efficient processing and identifies bottlenecks and features of this xml stack. one later goal will be to compare xml implementations among them. to do so, we might give hint on defining efficient profiles of existing specifications. join group report a problem declarative 3d for the web architecture created on 29 june 2011 (38 participants) the mission of the declarative 3d for the web architecture community group is to determine the requirements, options, and use cases for an integration of interactive 3d graphics capabilities into the w3c technology stack. this group is aimed to extract core features out of the requirements as foundation to propose feasible technical solutions. these should cover the majority of 3d use cases for the web - but not necessarily all of them. there are upcoming open (e.g., webgl) and proprietary (e.g., adobe) proposals for imperative graphics apis in the web context but we are missing an easy way to add interactive high-level declarative 3d objects to the html-dom to allow anyone to easily create, share, and experience interactive 3d graphics - with possibly wide ranging effects similar to those caused by the broad availability of video on the web. the goal of this cg is to evaluate the necessary requirements for a successful standardization of a declarative approach to interactive 3d graphics as part of html documents. join group report a problem sparql-ml created on 19 april 2021 (10 participants) the technological advancement in computational power and the significant increase in data generation allowed the successful implementation and application of many machine learning methods that were not possible before. on the one hand side, those methods need a lot of data to succeed. on the other hand side, the semantic web community has successfully published a large amount of machine-readable data on the web. rdf data is often accessible over not machine-learning-ready protocols. the purpose of this community is to discuss how to leverage machine learning methods in rdf data through the sparql query language and protocol. join group report a problem universal safety net for online learning created on 15 april 2021 (4 participants) learning to make the case for a new kind of user-learner help becoming common to the basic ui of browsers. one aspect: every html rendered word an invisible button that opens a help system able to provide anything any learner might need to recognize-read and/or understand the word (eventually) regardless of language, reading skill, vocabulary, background knowledge, or age. example: https://learningstewards.org/io-pq-pop-up/ online learning safety net (olsn) join group report a problem web ecology created on 22 march 2021 (5 participants) the purpose of this group should be to discuss anything that could enhance the web and reduce its impact on environment. discussion could be about, for example: improving efficiency of apis reducing data consumption upgrading apis to make them less greedy in energy millions of kilowatts are wasted in the world each year because of various reasons, such as: bad algorithms data storing (ex : spams) wrong processes any idea that could make the web more respectful for environment is welcome to this group. join group report a problem rebase created on 1 december 2020 (5 participants) the goal of this community group is to establish reliable public key infrastructure on the internet in a privacy-preserving way by allowing people and organizations to link their various public and semi-public accounts to cryptographic key materials at their own will. join group report a problem hfvrp created on 11 november 2020 (12 participants) this mission of this group is to help re-establish platform interoperability between descendants of the original "high fidelity virtual reality platform" (hfvrp) open source project. the group will initially host discussions and coordinate volunteer research efforts in order to identify relevant areas of common ground across hfvrp projects. for example, it was once possible to use the "interface" client from one platform to connect to a "domain server" hosted on a similar, but different platform. as these projects have continued to evolve, the once-shared protocol version (for example) between them has fallen out of sync, inadvertently breaking the possibility of cross-connections. by gathering together common interest across multiple projects, this group hopes to then help collectively estimate efforts and help champion neutral sub-projects that can restore specific compatibilities. it is suggested that neutral community sub-projects emerging from this group adopt the permissive lesser gnu public license (lgpl) open source license. lgpl currently seems to align best with the mission at hand and for these reasons: interoperability across diverse projects is likely to be an ongoing, multi-platform, community-driven effort -- adopting lgpl for these components can help ensure the collective community effort remains transparent and improvable across the entire project space as degrees of interoperability are restored lgpl dependencies can be version-managed and upgraded per each projects typical dependency update schedules lgpl is already an approved dependency license across hfvrp projects (ie: all known platforms critically depend on qt by way of the lgpl) -- by not introducing a new license for these shared efforts, existing open source project audits can remain intact this effort will hopefully span across diverse project politics, technical minds, and social circles which can come together and approach compatibility as a shared effort. all platforms forked from the original hfvrp code base are welcome to join forces this way and in particular contributing developers, community members, and any others interested in helping broaden platform interoperability. some of the low-level technology skills likely needed to restore interoperability are: familiarity with hfvrp networking protocols and versioning "hfm" internal model formats and corresponding c++ structures overall "oven" asset baking tool and filesystem layouts baked asset structures (materials.json, ktx, modded fbx format w/draco compression, etc.) entities "models.json.gz" world persistence format and "domain server" archive formats "avatar.fst" and internal blendshape "de facto" standards "interface" client, "domain server," and "assignment client" json configuration formats (as common sub-projects emerge) help setting up multi-project continuous integration systems we think it will be easiest for volunteers in cases where interested projects have remained open source, but all hfvrp projects (including closed source ones) are welcome to join and suggest specific layers or features they would nonetheless be interested in seeing reemerged as a common open source dependency. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem product tracing & blockchain created on 13 october 2020 (10 participants) web of product traceability this is the landing page for web of product traceability community group. in the modern commercial society, product traceability is an important technical system to support the business credit of enterprises.product traceability is also widely used in product quality supervision, modern logistics, financing mortgage, commercial consumption and other fields. therefore, many countries and organizations attach great importance to the development of traceability technology. many independent traceability systems have been built by different countries and organizations. uniform standards will help to improve the interconnection between them. with the development of technology, two-dimensional code has gradually replaced the commodity bar code, and the data contained in the rfid tag can reach 64k bytes, or even more.the article code based on url is compatible with traditional gs. 1 commodity code and other coding systems.therefore, an open product traceability network can be established from bottom to top based on www technology. master data, transaction data and event data can be described by xml / json technology. technologies such as internet of things and blockchain will also play an important role in the network.the web of product traceability community is aims to build an open traceability network that can run on the public internet.the original closed traceback network will not disappear, they can access to the open network as an autonomous domain.in the field of product traceability, there are also problems of data mining and information security. the community is aims to build various application models and interfaces to mine the value of traceability data.in order to ensure that the traceability data is not leaked, the community also needs to formulate corresponding information security standards to strictly control the access rights of traceability data. this will be a very promising and exciting work. we expect more enterprises and experts to join in and build an open traceability network. join group report a problem federated commerce created on 2 september 2020 (8 participants) decentralized e-commerce and storefront apps will more easily share and syndicate their products rather than relying on single and proprietary apis from hosts to operate a storefront. by structuring portable commerce data stores, protocols, and semantics, this group seeks to enable marketplaces to be built more eaily and made more easily discoverable. this group's efforts will complement existing activities such as web payments, linked data, and did, to deliver a search, browse, configure, checkout, and payment workflow for physical and digital products with mostly existing web technologies. at a higher-level, it would be potentially beneficial to include support for an aggregate query language, (such as sparql) to enable applications to query a known network of compatible applications for product information to better support web resource-to-web resource indexing and listing of products, increasing visibility without the need for central search engines. this would potentially utilize http methods to register product catalogs in other web apps or request product catalogs from other web apps, enabling products to be purchased outside of the scope of the original commerce site, creating an aggregate marketing power across the web rather than depending on singular, monolithic e-commerce platforms. join group report a problem 3d foss web development created on 26 august 2020 (12 participants) our mission is to build and share 3d software that can connect and communicate in free and open ways on ar, vr, and 2d displays. join group report a problem digital ssset standard created on 28 july 2020 (15 participants) the primary mission of the community group is to bring together (top companies, universities, and teams involved in digital finance technology in various industries) and frontier technology in digital finance to push forward the development to digital asset standardization. what is a digital asset? a digital asset is data with unique identity attributes that are binary coded, owned, or controlled by a company or individual. the data has various manifestations, including text content, images, multimedia, computer programs, etc. generally speaking, digital assets include websites and their content, domain names, application software, codes, electronic documents, image content, media content, electronic money, emails, game accounts, other accounts & their content, social network accounts & their relationships and cloud service accounts & their data, etc. the digital asset on the blockchain owns all the general attributes of digital assets above, it also has other characteristics: the computer programs registered on blockchain ledger or distributed ledger, as well as the virtual assets existed in the form of bit structure, can be programmed. the exchange of assets is essentially the exchange of code. the digital assets on the blockchain can achieve complete disintermediation of autonomous and autonomous point-to-point transactions without the need for third-party manual intervention. once the asset is issued on the blockchain, the subsequent circulation link can be independent of the issuer’s system. as the asset circulation is changed from single-center control to socialized communication, any channel with resources can become a catalyst for asset circulation, which greatly improve the efficiency of digital asset circulation, and truly achieve the effect of "multi-party issuance and free circulation." to welcome the era of asset digitization, the group is formed to technically communicate and cooperate with other members, and to develop a broader market together. the problems that we are trying to solve in this group are: digital asset operation, trading, development, and supervision standardization; formation of industry alliances and specification of industry standards; universal education of digital assets the group aims to support pioneer companies that explore digital assets, encourage communication and cooperation. we are expecting deliverables such as published reports and a service platform on this basis. join group report a problem svg-zh created on 6 may 2020 (2 participants) the mission of this group is to translate w3c svg specifications into chinese. join group report a problem media delivery created on 23 april 2020 (11 participants) the mission of this group is to define several apis that provide a standardised method of processing, optimizing and delivering images and video over the web join group report a problem web fights covid19 created on 10 april 2020 (11 participants) there is no doubt that the web is demonstrating its potential in these hard times of the covid19 pandemic. the web is allowing us to share information quickly and globally. also, it is enabling the quick deployment of remote-working solutions as a response to the lockdown measures imposed by a majority of governments. but the web goes far beyond. lots of web ressources have been launched in the last weeks from different parts of the world supporting tools to fight the covid19: websites implementing ai screening and detection solutions; with data visualization tools; accessing bots and humans for telemedicine services; sharing information about medical resources... all these are some of the examples, and the list grows every day. this community group is proposed for achieving the following objectives: (1) to create a repository of already existing web resources related to covid19 (2) to identify other web-based initiatives which are on-going (3) to share web-based initiatives of cg members in order to get on-board other members and achieve the maximum impact join group report a problem linked data for accessibility created on 31 march 2020 (26 participants) the linked data for accessibility community group’s mission is to make accessibility information about buildings, services and routes easier to find — everywhere where people need it. this is done (1) by creating a common and open standard vocabulary for accessibility and (2) by providing a central place for the web community to discuss issues around physical accessibility data. (3) this group may publish specifications based on the outcome of (1) and (2). join group report a problem network maintenance notifications created on 19 march 2020 (8 participants) the objective of this community is to discuss the possibility of creating a schema to describe network maintenance notifications. this topic has received traction in the industry, and thus a standard should at least be discussed. currently the industry is adopting embedded metadata within icalendar attachments, as well as apis. a standard could be used in both of these scenarios. this group may or may not decide to create specifications. join group report a problem covid-19 remote meet, work, class created on 12 march 2020 (14 participants) a clearinghouse for experience and guidelines for people who are suddenly called to avoid travel or meetings, work-at-home or do classes online. focus on current capabilities and future needs. join group report a problem decentralized identity korean created on 4 march 2020 (16 participants) the mission of the decentralized identity (did) korean community group includes the following: to facilitate focused discussion in korean of the decentralized identity – decentralized identifiers (dids), verifiable credentials(vc) and of related specifications to gather comments and questions in korean about those specifications to collect information about specific use cases in korea for technologies defined in those specifications to report the results of its activities as a group back to the did working group, the verifiable credentials working group and to the w3c membership and community to share an experience of decentralized identity best practice in the aspect of web app developer to share up to date information for decentralized identity industry including browser tech, web service, hybrid apps, dapps and extra. 탈중앙 신원 대한민국 커뮤니티 그룹의 임무는 다음과 같습니다. 탈중앙 신원에 관계된 표준(dids, vc 그리고 연관기술들)에 초점을 둔 논의를 활성화 합니다. 이들 표준과 관련된 대한민국의 코멘트와 질문들을 모읍니다. 이들 표준에 정의된 기술에 대한 대한민국의 특별한 유즈케이스(use case)를 정리합니다. 그리고 이러한 활동 결과를 dids 작업 그룹, vc작업 그룹, 그리고 w3c 구성원 및 커뮤니티에 보고합니다. 탈중앙 신원의 개발에 있어 모범사례를 공유합니다. 탈중앙 신원 산업 전반의 최신 정보를 공유합니다. join group report a problem synthetic media created on 2 march 2020 (16 participants) our group is interested in every component of the modern architectures of artificial intelligence with which to generate or synthesize media and interactive media content. we intend to advance the state of the art with a number of new standards. with new and improved standards, teams and organizations will be better able to explore and develop the interoperable components which comprise these modern architectures of artificial intelligence. join group report a problem the unitive web created on 14 february 2020 (6 participants) currently, there is a growing movement from the independence of the web, towards dominant companies. these companies offer organized information, but this comes at a price. we lose our independence more and more. the unitive web is a proposal to have both organized information and independence. it offers one generic approach closely compatible with the current web, which makes it possible to create a global open virtual space of information which is responsive and reliable. it offers open customization of user interaction, open bottom-up schema mapping, integration of (ai) algorithms, and facilitates in the protection of privacy. the aim of this group is to discuss any aspect of it and share specifications. for more information, see this video about unitive web. join group report a problem css print created on 13 february 2020 (48 participants) we are a community of users of css print, working together to gather use cases, help with specifications, and advocate for more and better implementations. join group report a problem mfx media created on 4 february 2020 (10 participants) the exploration and development of media containers that protect and serve the growing needs of the content creator. a media container with global tracking and accountability will ensure the upmost transparency and data management. the world needs a new media file that can meet the modern technological needs. join group report a problem building device naming standards created on 21 january 2020 (15 participants) being able to efficiently collect, analyse and leverage data insights from buildings is a catalyst for optimising building performance, improving the use of resources and moving towards predictive maintenance and buildings that can respond to the climate emergency. the lack of standardised naming and labelling for connected devices in the built environment means we are failing to leverage the value of data to allow interoperability, improve building efficiency and increase occupant productivity. a naming and labelling standard (complementing other industry initiatives) will simplify and drive consistency thus increasing value by unlocking the application of technologies such as machine learning. the work of this community group will align with and complement other initiatives in the industry such as brick, haystack, omniclass, uniclass, ifc etc. in scope for this work are: a simple specification for naming syntax a register of building device names and labels join group report a problem business data apis and interchange created on 21 october 2019 (9 participants) today, transmission of business data between software currently happens in the edi format. this format is confusing, unreadable, and not publicly published. many implementations are custom and involve high maintenance costs. the goal of this group is to define standards for transmission of various business data in a public, extensible, and humanly readable manner. join group report a problem content blocking created on 29 september 2019 (16 participants) the mission of this group is to improve web standards by conveying to working groups use cases from a content blocking perspective (for example web technologies used in areas related to ad blocking, anti-tracking or even accessibility). note: the original name for this group was the ad blocker community group. join group report a problem bitcoin hypermedia created on 21 september 2019 (42 participants) we will explore the sui generis nature of the "bit : coin :: info : creation" network/system/tree rooted in the genesis block planted by satoshi nakamoto on january 3, 2009 using the seed (hash) value 000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26f. this group may publish specifications, but it is initially focused on the facilitation of focused, collaborative discussions. join group report a problem web thing protocol created on 17 september 2019 (11 participants) the mission of this group is to define a common protocol for communicating with connected devices over the web, to enable ad-hoc interoperability on the web of things. deliverables of the group may include use cases, requirements and specifications. the group will collaborate with the w3c web of things interest group and working group to ensure any specifications complement or extend the “web of things (wot) thing description” specification. objectives: define a websocket sub-protocol for the web of things, using the w3c “web of things (wot) thing description” data model and operations define an http protocol binding for the web of things (or support the web of things working group in defining this protocol binding and ensuring consistency with the websocket sub-protocol where appropriate) evaluate other potential web of things protocol bindings (e.g. coap) see the proposed community group charter for more information. join group report a problem web certificate api created on 2 september 2019 (8 participants) the goal of web certificate api community group is to provide a javascript api for certificate related operations in web applications, such as retrieving a list of certificates, obtaining a public key and a private key associated with a certificate. join group report a problem zot protocol created on 27 june 2019 (18 participants) to standardize the zot protocol currently used in hubzilla and zap, and to push its adoption for social web. join group report a problem semantic industries created on 11 june 2019 (14 participants) this community group brings together people from research and industry who are interested in semantic modelling. researchers are interested in understanding the actual needs of industrial partners, gathering use cases and example data, and clarifying the challenges that further research can help address, as well as refining the methodologies for developing semantic based solutions. industrial partners are interested in having clear benefits for adopting semantic technologies in relation to the digital transformation of industry. how can these benefits be realised by average developers using higher level frameworks and better tooling. the w3c community group will make extensive use of the github issue tracker to raise and discuss ideas, and to prepare w3c community group reports with our findings. join group report a problem functional knowledge graph created on 16 april 2019 (9 participants) the mission of fkg group is to create specifications for encoding ontologies that ai assistants can operate upon enabling them to execute functions embedded in a web page. fkgs are encoded in json-ld, this group defines the vocabulary. a detailed proposal can be found at: https://github.com/keyvan-m-sadeghi/assister/blob/assister-conception/rfcs/text/assister-conception/readme.md join group report a problem conversational interfaces created on 28 february 2019 (37 participants) the mission of the conversational interfaces community group is to enable web developers to collaborate and share conversational experiences for a variety of domains. most dialogue systems serve interactive experiences in their own domain specific language, causing a fragmented zoo of proprietary formats. for example, google home or alexa do not share a common intermediate representation, which makes writing wide-spread content inaccessible to the mass audience. we study existing specs and design standards to harness proven techniques into common agreement. see the the community group's charter. join group report a problem knowledge domain created on 13 february 2019 (16 participants) exploring effective architectural and best practices support for publishing content on, and author content for the web effectively expressing knowledge domain specific content according to standard practices in that knowledge domain discipline. by knowledge domain we mean such human disciplines as mathematics, physics, chemistry and other stem disciplines. we also include disciplines such as music, economics, history and linguistics. we are particularly interested in disciplines that convey knowledge using discipline specific symbology which cannot currently gain effective communication through html. we further include domain specific markup systems as well as graphical representation such as svg rendering. this group may publish specifications. join group report a problem talent marketplace signaling created on 6 february 2019 (36 participants) much is said about the mismatch between the needs of employers for qualified employee candidates and a pool of available candidates. one major factor contributing to this mismatch is the signaling between the demand-side (i.e., employers) and supply-side (i.e., education, training and credentialing providers, students and workers) of the talent pipeline. this mismatch frequently results in neither party coming into view of the other. the goal of the talent marketplace signaling (talentsignal) community group is to assist schema.org in improving workforce signaling by refining existing schema.org types serving the talent pipeline and suggesting new types and properties where improved signaling cannot otherwise be achieved. currently, workforce signaling sits at the intersection of a number of existing schema.org types: course, jobposting, occupation, organization, person and the proposed educationaloccupationalcredential. the talentsignal community group will focus initially on refinement of the jobposting schema and related types as it survey's specifications from domain entities such as hr open standards and pesc as well as the us chamber of commerce foundation's job data exchange (jdx) and t3 innovation network initiatives for better means to strong, more effective supply- and demand-side signaling. join group report a problem schema extensions for iot created on 17 january 2019 (19 participants) this community group is for creating extensions to schema.org for iot use cases. we have been holding regular community teleconferences since 2017 and now would like to formalize our work and accept contributions from the community. a w3c cg is the logical next step in our organization, as we already work with other w3c cg, ig, and wg entities. our original charter is at: https://github.com/iot-schema-collab/ws-charter/blob/master/iotschema-charter.txt a revised charter for the cg is at: https://github.com/iot-schema-collab/intro-materials/blob/master/wg-charter.md join group report a problem ceddl html attribute-based markup and javascript api created on 8 january 2019 (3 participants) a lightweigt html attribute-based markup and javascript api you used for surfacing digital data on a web application intended for web analytics, website personalization and dmp implementations. applying lessons learnt by many implementations of customer experience digital data layer (ceddl) and bringing this back into a specification for the browser. join group report a problem web video map tracks (webvmt) created on 5 december 2018 (3 participants) this group aims to encourage uptake of web video map tracks (webvmt) to help establish an online ecosystem of users and developers by providing a forum in which to: identify & refine use cases; ensure that the design is fit for purpose; resolve implementation issues; develop supporting documentation & tools; progress towards standardisation. participation is welcomed by anyone providing constructive input regarding these topics within the scope of 'synchronising geolocation with video for the web', and by those with relevant expertise in particular. see also: www.webvmt.org editor's draft join group report a problem voter decision support created on 27 november 2018 (8 participants) this community group discusses voter decision support systems and related topics. this community group shall advance the theory and practice of decision-making software and decision support systems for use by citizens during voting-related and civic participation activities. this community group shall advance the theory and practice of voter-centric design, empowering and equipping citizens. this community group may draft suggestions and best practices and may coordinate with other groups to support pertinent standards. join group report a problem bd comics manga created on 31 october 2018 (55 participants) motion comics, web comics, visual novels, interactive manga, webtoon, turbomedia, parallax strip, still motion art ... all digital variants of visual narratives share a common underlying model, which must be clearly expressed before a universal publication format can be designed and released as a web standard. the mission of the bd comics manga community group (*) is to study and document, for all kinds of visual narratives expressed digitally, a common conceptual model and associated sets of controlled values. (*) bande dessinée, comics, manga are terms broadly used for sequential art in europe, usa and asia; this underlies the global scope of the study. join group report a problem interlinear text layout created on 21 august 2018 (4 participants) the mission of the interlinear text layout community group is to: (1) document use cases and requirements for interlinear text practices. (2) develop models for the representation of interlinear text. (3) develop recommendations for other communities working on standards that could support interlinear text presentation requirements (e.g. html, css, etc.). the interlinear text layout community group aims to serve a broad range of users engaging in manuscript digitization activities, linguistic annotation, multilingual annotation and related where representing interlinear text in web, ebook and related formats is either limited or not currently possible. join group report a problem voice assistant standardisation created on 10 august 2018 (39 participants) exploration and discussion of standards for voice assistants. join group report a problem volunteering ontology created on 2 august 2018 (8 participants) the volunteering ontology group seeks to provide the volunteering community with a shared vocabulary for the open exchange of data relating to volunteering. entities of interest include volunteering opportunities, the organizations hosting those opportunities, and the volunteers themselves. join group report a problem efficient extensible interchange created on 24 july 2018 (11 participants) to complete exi wg's exi4json (exi for json) work on efficient data encoding for json. we will also investigate compression, performance and power-reduction techniques using a variety of data representations. join group report a problem educational exercises and activities created on 13 july 2018 (64 participants) the mission of the educational exercises and activities community group is to develop standards for educational exercises and activities and to make recommendations with regard to other standards. join group report a problem smart contracts created on 30 may 2018 (15 participants) open protocol to define the structure, terminology, and network messages required of smart contracts. join group report a problem appsdesignlab created on 19 april 2018 (13 participants) our mission is to design & prototype ideas for mobile platforms and web apps. join group report a problem audio description created on 19 april 2018 (25 participants) mission: to create an open standard file format to support audio description all the way from scripting to mixing. scope: to agree requirements and propose a workable open standard file format for audio description, probably a profile of ttml2, with the intention of moving to the rec track within a working group. deliverables: requirements document draft specification document explainer join group report a problem open data nepal created on 19 february 2018 (10 participants) a forum for the open network of open data enthusiasts, government officers, students, researchers, and a non-profit leader who are working to improve the condition of open data in nepal. this space will help individual volunteers, groups, students to collaborate and discuss how one can help to boost the open data momentum in nepal. this group will not have any criteria and specification, anyone can join and may reuse the group works. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem veres one created on 29 january 2018 (46 participants) the mission of the veres one project is to facilitate the creation of open standards, software, and provide the governance to enable anyone in the world to create and manage their own decentralized identifiers. join group report a problem distributed compute protocol created on 22 january 2018 (9 participants) this working group is for the discussion and design of the specification of a protocol for standardized distributed ecmascript and webgl applications. distributed compute protocol (dcp) will become the standard for distributed computing by seamlessly integrating with the internet protocol suite. dcp will be introduced on top of https/tcp/ip to transmit json package files for execution, transforming computational power into a public utility. the compute resource allocation algorithm (craa) matches demand for suppliers by efficiently comparing a variety of requirements. dcp is a foundational building block for web 3.0 and is an enabler of technology including, but not limited to, allowing other distributed applications and blockchains to move to the world wide web. join group report a problem blockchain and decentralized apps created on 19 january 2018 (17 participants) the group's mission is to discuss and eventually create and propose web specifications for creating and using decentralized app (dapp) on a blockchain. the groups primary activities will be to start discussions with regards to use cases of dapps on blockchains and identify the issues that we have now. eventually, the group will publish technical thought papers on dapps and eventually produce deliverables like sample codes, use cases, proof of concepts, etc. in order for this community group to become a w3c working group to propose technical specifications related to creating and using dapps on blockchains. the ideal members that should join this group are those who has skills in web standards and have interests in blockchain technologies especially in the creation dapps on blockchains. join group report a problem art & culture (museums) on the web created on 17 november 2017 (76 participants) the art & culture (museums) on the web community group is an open forum for collaborative discussions about making the web a better place for the artifacts and other objects of artistic, cultural, historical, or scientific importance in the museums worldwide. use cases and requirements collection, gap analysis, standardization ideas incubation and technical proposal might be included in the work scale of this group. join group report a problem merging of web and mobile app created on 10 november 2017 (7 participants) the mission of this community is to be an incubator of optimizing web technology for the merging of web and mobile app, and to develop related requirements and approaches. join group report a problem educational and occupational credentials in schema.org created on 1 november 2017 (39 participants) the aim of this community group is to show how educational and occupational credentials may be described with schema.org, and to propose any additional terms for schema.org that may be necessary. educational and occupational credentials are defined as diplomas, academic degrees, certifications, qualifications, badges, etc., that a person can obtain through learning, education and/or training. they are typically awarded on successful completion of an assessment of relevant capabilities. see also the connecting credentials glossary of credentialing terms. related work includes: the credential transparency description language (ctdl) developed for the credential engine; ims global's badge alliance; and, the w3c verifiable claims working group. the work of this group will complement these, with a focus on integration with schema.org and on describing a credential that is being offered rather than the claim to posses one. join group report a problem vocabularies for big data analysis created on 18 october 2017 (17 participants) this group discusses semantic ontologies for the big data space. it is supported initially by the h2020 big data europe project. the mission of this group is to cooperate, discuss and agree on semantic vocabularies to support applications in the domain of big data processing. it is a conscious choice to initiate one forum to discuss and agree on various new vocabularies and/or their amendments. with this one group we hope to reach a broader public. the different ontologies have a common aim: describe tools such that they can be reused in semantic empowered applications for big data processing. at launch this will include ontologies for the docker ecosystem and for har-files. the former is used for setting up stacks in the big data europe project, the latter for analysing http requests. join group report a problem digital asset management industry business ontology created on 22 august 2017 (54 participants) the mission of digital asset management business ontology community group is to propose, discuss, create and maintain extensions to schema.org related to the digital asset management industry. join group report a problem syndicated.media created on 26 july 2017 (20 participants) an open community group focused on the technical and production aspects of podcasting and other applications of media distributed via feeds. current areas of interest include extending rss to support the modern needs of producers and their content; standardizing host and client behavior; improving the availability and accuracy of metrics and analytics; establishing and publishing best practices for de facto standards that have been adopted in the industry; thinking about the future of podcasting and needs that may arise. join group report a problem brazilian publishing created on 30 june 2017 (40 participants) the purpose of the brazilian’s community group is to promote and foster the discussions around digital publications in brazil, stimulate the adoption of the epub 3.1 standard by publishers and developers. the local group will translate w3c documents, guidelines and specifications to minimize barriers with the non-native language and help in the understanding of the standards for a growing number of people. it is also the responsibility of this group, bring questions and pertinent feedback to w3c’s publishing working group. the group will organize regular meetings and events to mobilize more and more participants in local debates and also as a way to stimulate the epub 3.1 adoption by the brazilian publishing industry. this group will not publish original specifications. join group report a problem croatian web developers created on 20 june 2017 (2 participants) the mission of this group is to create and support a community of competent, internationally certified it professionals focused on developing the it web and mobile based tools for croatian agriculture, business, education, health care, government and general social needs. join group report a problem decentralized communications created on 24 march 2017 (29 participants) the mission of this group is to specify and build a reference implementation of decentralized communications. decentralized communications enables natively inter-operable communication services that are able to trustfully use peer to peer connections without having to use central authorities or services. decentralized comms are inherently inter-operable without using standard protocols by using the protocol on-the-fly concept, where the most appropriate protocol stack to be used, is selected and instantiated at run-time. join group report a problem xpath next created on 10 march 2017 (9 participants) create a place for gathering requirement from existing user of xpath, potential user of xpath and research in this area join group report a problem blockchain digital assets created on 7 july 2016 (40 participants) the group's mission is to discuss and eventually create and propose web specifications for creating and using digital assets on a blockchain. the groups primary activities will be to start discussions with regards to use cases of digital assets on blockchains and identify the issues that we have now. eventually, the group will publish technical thought papers on digital assets on blockchains and eventually produce deliverables like sample codes, use cases, proof of concepts, etc. in order for this community group to become a w3c working group to propose technical specifications related to creating and using digital assets on blockchains. the ideal members that should join this group are those who has skills in web standards and have interests in blockchain technologies especially in the creation and using of digital assets on blockchains. join group report a problem experimental protocols created on 5 july 2016 (12 participants) the mission for this group is to propose a unified, consensual structure for representing experimental protocols in the biomedical domain. this group will start by publishing use cases, discussions on published use cases, evaluations of existing reporting structures, ontologies, minimal amounts of informations, etc applicable to the problem of representing and reporting experimental protocols. this group will address semantic and syntactic issues. join group report a problem browser extension created on 7 may 2015 (55 participants) problem: there is no cross browser standard for building browser extensions, which requires developers to create extensions for each browser individually. proposal/mission: the browser extension group will attempt to standardize extension package structure, api, portability etc., across browsers. join group report a problem data visualization created on 21 december 2014 (52 participants) the mission of this group is to provide a unified data model for data visualization, data visualization api, core model of data visualization methods and category, and domain specific data visualization methods (e.g. scientific data visualization), and further, data interactive analysis method. join group report a problem chinese web accessibility created on 10 september 2013 (32 participants) the mission of this group is to help chinese developers and designers to build an accessible web. this group will not produce technical specifications. join group report a problem federated identities for the open web created on 2 september 2013 (16 participants) the mission of this group is to propose new apis that allow for secure identity federation across domains on the open web. join group report a problem best practices for multilingual linked open data created on 9 april 2013 (73 participants) the target for this group is to crowd-source ideas from the community regarding best practises for producing multilingual linked open data. the topics for discussion are mainly focused on naming, labelling, interlinking, and quality of multilingual linked data, among others. use cases will be identified to motivate discussions. participation both from academia and industry is expected. the main outcome of the group will be the documentation of patterns and best practices for the creation, linking, and use of multilingual linked data. this group will not create specifications. join group report a problem philosophy of the web created on 17 april 2012 (59 participants) many philosophical issues have arisen in the technical design of web standards over the years. philosophical conundrums sometimes seem out of context in the light of seemingly more pressing technical problems. yet, the very fact that these philosophical problems are constantly raised indicates that they are not easily dispensed with, but should instead be the focus of serious and ongoing long-term discussions. this is why this cg aims at undertaking such discussions, even outsourcing them to alleviate the task of other groups. to clarify the goal of this cg: it should not be a place to do unconstrained philosophical research but rather a forum to examine issues arising from the w3c technical community. open discussion and precise descriptions of the minutiae of the web will help guide the work in the cg, which should output short guides on precise topics to help case progress and discussions in other groups. the philoweb community group aims to undertake such discussions by bringing together experts from the web and the philosophical community to help the task of "philosophical engineering", a term coined by tim berners-lee. join group report a problem big data created on 12 april 2012 (126 participants) this group will explore emerging big data pipelines and discuss the potential for developing standard architectures, application programming interfaces (apis), and languages that will improve interoperability, enable security, and lower the overall cost of big data solutions. the big data community group will also develop tools and methods that will enable: a) trust in big data solutions; b) standard techniques for operating on big data, and c) increased education and awareness of accuracy and uncertainties associated with applying emerging techniques to big data. join group report a problem web of sensors created on 12 february 2012 (32 participants) this group explores how the web platform could interact with sensors around us. for instance, how do we hook up an arduino and interact with it through the web platform? the scope is to explore we can safely expose sensor data to the web platform in way that protects user's privacy and meets the needs of developers. join group report a problem css accessibility created on 12 october 2011 (47 participants) document and describe how browsers and assistive technology currently implement css in regards to accessibility and guidance on how they should. the documentation and guidance will be directed at both css implementers and developers who use css. join group report a problem augmented reality created on 19 august 2011 (113 participants) the w3c augmented reality community group is an open forum for collaborative discussions about the intersection of augmented reality and the web, or more simply the augmented web. this forum welcomes discussions about related standards, the standardisation process, related market developments and the broader social implications of this new generation of the web. we believe that the augmented web brings a unique perspective that pushes standards, apis, hardware technologies and the broader web platform to the edge of their performance limits. the augmented web embraces the changes brought about by html5 and other related standards including geolocation, deviceorientation, devicemotion, webgl, web audio, media capture & streams and webrtc. the augmented web integrates all of these disparate technologies into an integrated new vision of the web. this group will not produce specifications. instead it aims to build an integrated community voice that reaches out to all of the other relevant working groups and standards bodies to ensure that the augmented web perspective is clearly represented and considered. our goal is to help ensure that the disparate standards and apis being planned and implemented by these other groups can be seamlessly integrated into this new vision for the augmented web. read more about goals and operating guidelines in the charter: http://www.w3.org/community/ar/wiki/charter join group report a problem web-native created on 6 january 2021 (7 participants) the web-native community group is a focused initiative to bring the current developer community overrun by frameworks back to native web technologies, so that everyone can bank more on the platform and less on abstractions. this is a targeted intervention to the now sweeping "framework-first" thinking for a new "native-first" thinking among developers. whatever were the reasons for the former at the time, it no longer aligns with the current state of the platform and its fast-evolving future. it is now, more so than ever, a compelling problem to fix, and this community group will do just that! we hope to build on the work of existing posts in the community, that are, at least, looking for a paradigm shift. more importantly, our key activity will be working with the developer community and other w3c community groups to: (1) implement strategies that engage the developer community to put native languages, apis, and methodologies at the heart of their everyday work, and (2) facilitate proposals that can bring various common development paradigms to native implementation, or to say the least, provide low-level primitives to support higher-level implementations of these paradigms that represents the modern web. join group report a problem handshake protocol created on 4 december 2020 (10 participants) the handshake project aims to solve certificate authorities problems caused by the centralization of the dns root zone. the goal is to replace the current dns root zone with a decentralized blockchain database that allows everyone to own a tld. to learn more, see https://learn.namebase.io/ join group report a problem performing arts information representation created on 3 september 2020 (26 participants) performing arts information representation (pair) is a community group dedicated to advancing the use of shared conceptual models for better data interoperability in the performing arts domain. this domain stands to gain tremendous benefit from using semantic web technologies as it relies on the interoperability of information across many fields such as event publishing and discovery, digital archiving, and research (to name a few). the group’s mission is to support the development and use of semantic vocabularies and common representational frameworks to ensure the meaningful sharing and aggregation of information related to the performing arts. this community group provides a forum for the exchange of ideas and experiences, scenarios and requirements while bringing together key stakeholders. the group will act as an advocate for representational standardization in the performing arts sector. pair will strive to develop mutually beneficial collaborations with groups and organizations that are actively working on relevant standards and/or implementations. in particular, the group will work to develop extensions to existing representational standards such as schema.org and wikidata so that performing arts information can be better understood by search engines and other web applications. while designing, maintaining and revising vocabularies and foundational specifications for the performing arts, the group will make efforts to involve the performing arts community at large through solicitation of requests, comments and suggestions from non pair members. this may take the form of symposiums, workshops, events or community curated open resources. join group report a problem atomic data created on 1 september 2020 (7 participants) develop a standard for exchanging type-safe data on the web. https://docs.atomicdata.dev join group report a problem font and text created on 24 august 2020 (61 participants) the font and text community group gathers individuals and organizations interested in discussing and developing specifications and implementations for technologies which operate on and at the interface between text encoding and font formats. examples of such technologies are shaping engines and text layout applications. join group report a problem xslt extensions created on 23 april 2020 (34 participants) the group aims to agree extensions to the xslt 3.0 recommendation published on 8 june 2017, along with supporting changes to the other specifications (xpath, functions and operators) on which it depends. a preliminary proposal describing requirements for such extensions can be found in michael kay's proposal for xslt 4.0 published in the proceedings of xml prague 2020 it is intended that the group will operate primarily by use of email and forums but may hold a face-to-face meeting to resolve issues prior to final publication of a specification. the group may publish specifications. join group report a problem inclusive design for the immersive web created on 12 february 2020 (9 participants) following on the w3c inclusive design for the immersive web standards workshop held in november 2019, the inclusive immersive web community group tracks and promotes progress on accessibility issues identified across the many relevant w3c and khronos groups working on aspects of xr (virtual reality and augmented reality), and ensures progress towards a consistent set of guidance, technologies and techniques to make the immersive web accessible to people with disabilities. the group also acts as a liaison with the xr access initiative and its relevant sub-groups. work mode: the primary work modes for the group will be to track and respond to accessibility issues logged in the group's repo. the group will endeavor to have a representative from each of the groups identified as relevant to the progress of the said issues and will meet a minimum of quarterly to review progress on all issues including those which have been logged but have not been actively taken up in order to ensure that there is a coordinated view of issues raised. join group report a problem bridging graphql and rdf created on 31 january 2020 (53 participants) the aim of this group is to explore how graphql and rdf can be combined, and to what respect they can benefit each other. this group explores possible combinations of graphql and rdf. we identify and compare existing approaches that bridge these worlds, collect use cases and requirements for such approaches, and characterize corresponding application areas. this will produce deliverables that may serve as input for one or more possible future standardization efforts. examples of application areas combining graphql and rdf are: read/write access (crud) to and from rdf data via graphql queries and/or interfaces validation of rdf graphs using graphql schemas mapping between graphql and rdf-based shape languages this group aims to produce the following deliverables: an overview of all known approaches that combine graphql and rdf. this overview will include a brief description of each approach, the company/organization that has developed it, and links to the corresponding documentation. an analysis of all known approaches that combine graphql and rdf. this analysis will include a categorization across one or more facets that will be identified. a final report on suggestions/possibilities for standardization. join group report a problem bibframe2schema.org created on 4 december 2018 (18 participants) the objective of the community group is: to facilitate a consensually agreed route for the conversion and/or mapping of bibliographic data into schema.org; building on the development, initiated by the library of congress, of the bibframe 2.0 linked data vocabulary; utilising the specifications of bibframe 2.0 as a stable base to develop upon. the initial objectives of the community are: 1. the creation of a reference metadata mapping from bibframe 2.0 to schema.org. 2. to facilitate agreed development and open sharing of reference software implementation(s) to: enrich bibframe data with schema.org terms and/or create schema.org terms from bibframe 2.0 data. join group report a problem semantic web in health care and life sciences created on 27 july 2016 (50 participants) the mission of the semantic web health care and life sciences community group (hcls cg) is to develop, advocate for, and support the use of semantic web technologies across health care, life sciences, clinical research and translational medicine. these domains stand to gain tremendous benefit from intra- and inter-domain application of semantic web technologies as they depend on the interoperability of information from many disciplines. the hcls cg provides a forum for supporting, developing and applying semantic web technologies across healthcare, life sciences, clinical research and the continuum of translational medicine. within these contexts, the hcls cg focuses on the use of semantic web technologies to realize specific use cases which themselves have a specific clinical, research of business values. as use cases are developed, hcls cg can solicit advice on technical matters from other semantic web related groups and give feedback on the use of technologies based on the work they do. the cg may also develop ongoing and mutually productive liaisons with relevant external organizations in healthcare, life sciences, and clinical research, including organizations that are actively working on relevant standards and/or implementations to which the hcls’s work might contribute. join group report a problem cryptoledgers created on 2 april 2015 (29 participants) this group aims at creating an international and interdisciplinary network of researchers - academic and non-academic - interested in exploring the economic, legal, technical and societal challenges raised and faced by cryptoledger-based applications, such as bitcoin or ethereum. the purpose of this group is to enable peer support and collaboration for researchers across institutions and disciplines to achieve a better understanding of the opportunities and risks posed by cryptocurrencies and other cryptoledger-based applications. this group includes those doing theoretical analysis, investigating tools and applications that might hinder or support the adoption of alternative cryptocurrencies, or collaborating on the development of new tools to further promote their deployment worldwide. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem browsers and robotics created on 22 october 2014 (18 participants) this community group will discuss the applications of web browsers as the computer for controlling robots (robotics, in other words). and it will be also intended to feedback knowledge obtained from this discussion to standardization activity about web of things. what kinds of values are contained in using a web browser not only in drawing graphical user interface but also in controlling and manipulating robots, and what kinds of difficulties and problems are there in that case? to search their answers may become the driving force of this activity. as an example, there may be the following questions in the discussion: is a case applying a web browser as a simple controller of the robots which does not have ui such as screens or the pointing devices still meaningful? for example, connectivity with web services and interlocking operation between robots (swarm robotics via web) may be one of its values. is it possible to relate a graphical user interface of html to interactive and physical user interface of the robots? is it meaningful? as an example, a relation between a physical push button and 'input' type="button" element in the html may deserve considering. are cases using relatively low-level interface used in many robots such as pwm of the motor, digital or analog signal interfaces, i2c, spi, uart and gpios by the application on the web browsers meaningful? is real-time computing at the same level as rtos feasible on the web browser-based general-purpose computing environments? an initial related activity is the mozilla factory open hardware project. furthermore, this group may publish specifications based on those knowledge such as webgpio, webi2c api and so on. join group report a problem agriculture created on 15 october 2014 (61 participants) the initial mission of the agriculture community group is to gather and categorise existing user scenarios, which use web apis and services, in the agriculture industry from around the world, and to serve as a portal which helps both web developers and agricultural stakeholders create smarter devices, web applications & services, and to provide bird's eye view map of this domain which enables w3c and other sdos to find overlaps and gaps of user scenarios and the open web platform. we'll try to collect facts and knowledge from around the world through crowd-sourcing, while, at the same time, build a scaffold for it by quickly gathering key topics from japanese agricultural stakeholders. smart platform forum supports this early stages by connecting relevant stakeholders in japan and organising face-to-face meetings if needed to proceed faster. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem touch events created on 28 october 2013 (10 participants) the touch events community group was formed by members of the web events working group (responsible for the touch events specification) and the pointer events working group (responsible for the pointer events spec). the group's focus is to determine differences in touch event behavior between browsers. the group seeks to form consensus on the best approaches for interoperability outside of what's already standardized. among the topics in scope for this group: * defining how touch-action should be implemented in browsers that support touch events; see: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cv2axyrdpdgsrypaqcfgrgqvuwyi50eztmvsmlwgrpm/ * defining the "right" touchevent / pointerevent interaction for both browsers and pointer event polyfills; see: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sasl1qyjv6agrdvgpleylzznzc38u-tfn_3a67-nlsc/ * trying to form consensus on how exactly browsers should behave in sending touch events when scrolling starts (f.ex. see the following public-webevents thread: http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/public-webevents/2013aprjun/0040.html * identifying other differences that exist between these events. * discussing problems web/framework developers have with the design of touch events; see: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12-hplsif7-isy8tqhtuq3iqdi-iszvi0yzv5zwl90vu/ * define "mappings" between touch events and pointer events; for example, see: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0avdbn9kvx22qdgrnrxnpb0zbtul3sekwdudtaw9pwwc&usp=sharing * define the relationships between touch-pointer-mouse. the group also expects to make proposals for potential future standards. join group report a problem web copyright created on 8 october 2013 (11 participants) irrespective of whether we like it or not, of whether w3c or other sdos eventually accept it or not, drm seems slated to come to the web platform. we are looking at video today, but books, apps, and therefore relatively arbitrary web documents could easily be next. the business pressure to do so is such that there is little in the way that technology can do to stop this process. our communities may produce everything from learned recantations to bitter rants, words will not suffice to address the problem. the only way in which we can decisively put a stop to drm is by changing the legal system which can make it seem desirable to some. the goal of this group is to produce a set of realistic proposals for web-compatible copyright legislation. its focus is very much pragmatic, the idea being not to produce an idealistic laundry list for some free content utopia, but rather actionable proposals that stand a chance of passing into law. this group will not produce specifications. join group report a problem automotive and transportation created on 21 february 2013 (119 participants) the mission of the automotive and transportation group is to act as an incubator of ideas for standardization for connected vehicles and the broader transportation data space. it had produced some early draft specifications for making vehicle signals available in a browser runtime as a first class object. those specifications were the basis for launching the w3c automotive working group. the auto working group has since changed to service specifications to expose signals in a broader range of computing environments and bringing this extremely useful telematics information to the cloud. fuller description of current and evolving scope is in the charter. join group report a problem webid created on 17 january 2012 (67 participants) the webid community group is a continuation of the webid incubator group [1]. the community group will continue development of a specification for the webid protocol, build test suites, document use case, issues, and grow the community of implementations. [1] http://www.w3.org/2005/incubator/webid/ join group report a problem open annotation created on 8 december 2011 (131 participants) the purpose of the open annotation community group is to work towards a common, rdf-based, specification for annotating digital resources. the effort will start by working towards a reconciliation of two proposals that have emerged over the past two years: the annotation ontology [1] and the open annotation model [2]. initially, editors of these proposals will closely collaborate to devise a common draft specification that addresses requirements and use cases that were identified in the course of their respective efforts. the goal is to make this draft available for public feedback and experimentation in the second quarter of 2012. the final deliverable of the open annotation community group will be a specification, published under an appropriate open license, that is informed by the existing proposals, the common draft specification, and the community feedback. [1] http://code.google.com/p/annotation-ontology/ [2] http://www.openannotation.org/spec/beta/ join group report a problem games created on 26 september 2011 (89 participants) the goal of the games community group is to improve the quality of open web standards that games developers rely on to create games. to achieve its goal, the games community group will: track specifications and vendor implementations related to open web games. recommend new specifications to be produced and find group homes for them. refine use cases to communicate specific needs of games. suggest refinements or fixes to existing specifications to better meet the needs of the game development community. explore capabilities —apis, semantics, techniques for rendering, processing, personalization, customization, interoperability, etc.— that developers can leverage to localize games and guarantee that they are accessible. evangelize specifications to browser vendors. document how to best use open web standards for games. evangelize open web standards to game developers and game development best practices to web developers. the games community group will not develop any normative specification. as such, there will not be any essential claims under the w3c contributor license agreement or final specification agreement. please see the adopted charter for details. join group report a problem accessibility features created on 10 june 2021 (29 participants) improving the accessibility features of browsers, other user agents, and operating systems makes every app and web site they render more accessible to people with disabilities. the accessibility features community group (afcg) promotes the development of these accessibility features. people with disabilities will find similar features across browsers and operating systems that also work consistently for all provided content. for content creators, reliable built-in features will help to focus their accessibility efforts on addressing challenges unique to their content. these accessibility features can come in a variety of forms, such as: always-on features, such as page and app resizing toggles, such as always-visible focus indicators and high contrast modes settings, like preferred fonts and smallest text size fallback features, like automated captions and heading detection to promote the development of new accessibility features, afcg will develop a list of recommended accessibility features. this list will include accessibility features already available, but also ideas for new accessibility features that can be shown to work through prototypes. to encourage the implementation of recommended accessibility features, afcg will track which of these are supported in common browsers and operating systems. the accessibility features community group will not develop any normative specification. as such, there will not be any essential claims under the w3c contributor license agreement or final specification agreement. join group report a problem tns blockchain created on 7 april 2020 (7 participants) a web based blockchain project to explore the use of digital names within existing web applications and paas and iaas platforms. the english or human language naming solution presented by digital names solves a big problem related to the scale-up of blockchain networks and cryptocurrency systems. over a hundred million consumers in the globally currently use ewallets. there are over 100 million crypto trading accounts registered on the worlds crypto exchanges. all currently use public crypto keys for transaction settlement. new companies and individuals entering the emerging blockchain / crypto financial system for the first time frequently find it difficult to understand how to easily send and receive money from ewallets. to regular people or mainstream users the precise steps involved with sending and receiving digital money is currently limiting usage of the blockchain. it is confusing and intimidating, and creates insecurity of inputting keys wrong and losing the value of a transaction. digital names simplifies the remembering, typing and everyday usage of digital wallets for crypto and kind of crypto payments or receipts into or out of a digital wallet. join group report a problem css4 created on 24 february 2020 (30 participants) a group to debate and define css4. the umbrella term "css3" was incredibly useful in teaching the new additions to css around 2010. it seems time to loosely group together more recent additions under another umbrella, to help increase adoption and make it easier to teach. this will not change how the csswg operates, will not affect spec numbering, and will be separate from the official css snapshots. discussion began at: https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/4770 this wicg group is a place to work out the details. join group report a problem digital identity created on 20 june 2019 (34 participants) the mission of the w3c digital identity community group is to identify and resolve real world identity issues, to explore and build a more secure trusted digital identity ecosystem on internet for people, organizations and things fully controlling, protecting and expressing their identity. our work focuses on the ecosystem's scalability, interoperability, mobility, security and privacy. we intend to integrate interoperable identity solutions, systems and networks in our ecosystem. join group report a problem svg created on 13 february 2019 (40 participants) the mission of this group is to gather and incubate new features and requirements for svg — making it easier for software developers and content creators in the svg community to engage with the svg standardization process. this group will complement the svg working group, and covers the same scope of technologies. draft proposals for new svg features, developed in the community group, may transition to recommendation-track specifications in the working group. this group may publish specifications. see the svg cg charter for more information. join group report a problem multidimensional quality metrics (mqm) created on 22 june 2017 (17 participants) the multidimensional quality metrics (mqm) community group fosters the development of mqm for translation and localization quality assessment and its interoperability with w3c’s internationalization tag set (its) 2.0 recommendation. membership is open to parties interested in contributing to or implementing mqm. join group report a problem geospatial semantic web created on 19 december 2012 (65 participants) geoknow addresses a bold challenge in the area of intelligent information management: the exploitation of the web as a platform for geospatial knowledge integration as well as for exploration of geographic information. this group will bring together scientists, gis users, linked data users, data consumers and providers, interested in the exploitation of linked geospatial data. this group will not produce specifications. join group report a problem synchronized multimedia for publications created on 8 january 2018 (23 participants) this community group's goal is to propose a way to synchronize audio or video with web publications and other document formats being developed by the publishing working group, in order to make the publications accessible to people with different types of reading requirements. the cg may recommend the best way to integrate an existing technology, or it may provide an outline for developing a new format. join group report a problem shape expressions created on 12 december 2016 (47 participants) this group serves to promote and expand shex – shape expressions. shex is an alternative to shacl which uses a syntactic representation to describe the shape of an rdf graph. the shape expressions (shex) language describes rdf nodes and graph structures. a node constraint describes an rdf node (iri, blank node or literal) and a shape describes the triples touching nodes in rdf graphs. these descriptions identify predicates and their associated cardinalities and datatypes. shex shapes can be used to communicate data structures associated with some process or interface, generate or validate data, or drive user interfaces. spec at https://shexspec.github.io/spec/ join group report a problem experience api (xapi) vocabulary & semantic interoperability created on 17 july 2015 (27 participants) currently experience api (xapi) mostly focuses on providing “structural” interoperability via javascript object notation language (json). structural interoperability defines the syntax of the data exchange and ensures the data exchanged between systems can be interpreted at the data field level. in comparison, semantic interoperability leverages the structural interoperability of the data exchange, but provides a vocabulary so other systems and consumers can also interpret the data. analytics produced by xapi statements would benefit from more consistent and semantic approaches to describing domain-specific verbs. the xapi specification recommends implementers to adopt community-defined vocabularies, but the only current guidance is to provide very basic, human-readable identifier metadata (e.g., literal string name(display), description). the main objective of the vocabulary and semantic interoperability working group (wg) is to research machine-readable, semantic technologies (e.g., rdf, json-ld) in order to produce guidance for communities of practice (cops) on creating, publishing, or managing controlled vocabulary datasets (e.g., verbs). join group report a problem json for linking data created on 1 september 2011 (110 participants) json-ld (javascript object notation for linking data) is a lightweight linked data format that gives your data context. it is easy for humans to read and write. it is easy for machines to parse and generate. it is based on the already successful json format and provides a way to help json data interoperate at web-scale. if you are already familiar with json, writing json-ld is very easy. these properties make json-ld an ideal linked data interchange language for javascript environments, web service, and unstructured databases such as couchdb and mongodb. join group report a problem interoperability remedies created on 19 november 2021 (3 participants) the mission of this group is to ensure that proposals for mandatory interoperability imposed by regulators follow recognised principles for web specifications. see the proposed charter for details. join group report a problem blockchain wallet & exchange platform created on 23 october 2021 (5 participants) the purpose of this community group is to establish and explore the technology challenges for blockchain wallet and exchange platforms. working to define the current process and help to explore the options to establish a more secure and cost effective process for all blockchain applications online. we invite all interested parties to join in our community group. join group report a problem web of things japanese created on 28 january 2021 (44 participants) the mission of the web of things japanese community group includes the following: to facilitate focused discussion in japanese on the web of things specifications and related specifications to gather comments and questions in japanese about those specifications to collect information about specific use cases in japanese for technologies defined in those specifications to report the results of its activities as a group back to the web of things working group/interest group, the w3c membership and the web community. this group will not publish any specifications. join group report a problem bullet chatting created on 26 september 2019 (17 participants) a community group to incubate work on bullet chatting. join group report a problem mathml refresh created on 24 january 2019 (47 participants) mathml first became a w3c recommendation in 1998. it has wide support in the publishing industry and with assistive technology. mathml has had several updates, but is showing its age and needs to be updated. this group will focus on changes to the mathml 3 recommendation so that it better aligns with the current web environment, eases the burden on browser implementations, and increases support for assistive technology. the group will propose a new revision for mathml, potentially with profiles for browsers, publishers, and other subgroups such as authors or online tests. the group will also develop tests so that authors/publishers can be confident that what they see as an author is what the user will see as a reader when the same font is used. participation is encouraged if you are in involved in publishing, authoring, or rendering math. the group strongly encourages the participation of those involved with browser implementations, recommendations, and apis that potentially affect the rendering of math. join group report a problem blockchain created on 14 march 2016 (226 participants) the mission of the the blockchain community group is to generate message format standards of blockchain based on iso20022 and to generate guidelines for usage of storage including torrent, public blockchain, private blockchain, side chain and cdn. this group will study and evaluate new technologies related to blockchain, and use cases such as interbank communications. join group report a problem rdf stream processing created on 1 august 2013 (102 participants) the mission of the rdf stream processing community group (rsp) is to define a common model for producing, transmitting and continuously querying rdf streams. this includes extensions to both rdf and sparql for representing streaming data, as well as their semantics. moreover this work envisions an ecosystem of streaming and static rdf data sources whose data can be combined through standard models, languages and protocols. complementary to related work in the area of databases, this community group looks at the dynamic properties of graph-based data, i.e., graphs that are produced over time and which may change their shape and data over time. join group report a problem hydra created on 17 june 2013 (226 participants) building web apis seems still more an art than a science. how can we build apis such that generic clients can easily use them? and how do we build those clients? current apis heavily rely on out-of-band information such as human-readable documentation and api-specific sdks. however, this only allows for very simple and brittle clients that are hardcoded against specific apis. hydra, in contrast, is a set of technologies that allow to design apis in a different manner, in a way that enables smarter clients. the foundation is laid by the hydra core vocabulary. it defines a number of fundamental concepts, such as hypermedia controls and collections, which allow machines to understand how to interact with an api. since all information about the api is available in a machine-readable form, completely generic clients become possible. the core vocabulary is complemented by linked data fragments, a set of specifications that enable advanced yet efficient client-side querying of web apis. more information about these technologies can be found on our homepage: http://www.hydra-cg.com/ join group report a problem sustainable web design created on 4 april 2013 (46 participants) a community group dedicated to creating sustainable websites. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem portable personal data preferences created on 14 june 2021 (15 participants) a problem with terms of service agreements is that they often require an all-or-none acceptance or rejection. in addition, they may be in a form that is not accessible to persons with disabilities making it difficult to make an informed decision. the mission of this community group is to find ways that help users understand what they are being asked to commit to, and to provide a finer grain of control in terms of what they are willing to share. the overall goal is to put control of personal data into an individual’s hands. the group's primary activity is to discuss and report on how to make terms of service agreements comprehensible to users and to provide a means by which users can express their preferences regarding their personal data. the reports may include descriptions of use cases, user interface wire frames, plain language proposals, and supports that educate users about personal data and data sharing. the group will define a way for users to express preferences regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of their personal information. these preferences will be "portable" in the sense that they are encoded once and can be used on a variety of platforms including websites, desktops, and mobile devices, among others. people interested in educating users regarding personal data and data sharing, inclusive user interface design, and the use of plain language in policies and service agreements are welcome. this group may publish specifications. charter (wip): https://inclusive-design.github.io/cg-portable-personal-data-preferences/cgcharter.html join group report a problem sparql 1.2 created on 29 march 2019 (110 participants) the sparql 1.2 community group is a forum for discussion and refinement of sparql 1.1. it will document features found as extensions to available triple stores and also document common needs from the user community. the cg aims to create consensus and understanding of the impact of new features with special emphasis on features that leave existing sparql 1.1 queries and systems unchanged. the cg will build a collection of such features leading to a cg report on use cases and requirements. join group report a problem linked building data created on 30 june 2014 (173 participants) this group brings together experts in the area of building information modelling (bim) and web of data technologies to define existing and future use cases and requirements for linked data based applications across the life cycle of buildings. a list of recommended use cases will be produced by this community group. the envisioned target beneficiaries of this group are both industrial and governmental organisations who use data from building information modelling applications and other data related to the building life cycle (sensor data, gis data, material data, geographical data, and so forth) to achieve their business processes and whom will benefit from greater integration of data and interoperability between their data sets and the wider linked data communities. for example, benefit may be obtained by publishing and combining localised data on new cheaper building materials, energy efficient building devices and systems, along with real time data on weather patterns, energy prices and geodata. by making this data available to applications, they will be better able to support decision makers during the whole of the building life cycle, which includes design, construction, commissioning, operation, retrofitting/refurbishment/reconfiguration, demolition, and recycling of buildings. the group will engage with these beneficiaries through surveys and events organised in conjunction with the affiliated workshop series on linked data for architecture and construction (ldac). join group report a problem human services created on 10 june 2014 (31 participants) goals the goals of the community group on human service data are to: create an ongoing conversation space around world data standards in the human service sector, involving stakeholders from multiple perspectives including: government human service agencies, for-profit companies, and ngos; diverse substantive areas, such as welfare benefits eligibility, health interfaces, information and referral services, homelessness, substance abuse, child welfare, aging and disability resources, juvenile justice, etc.; diverse stakeholder purposes including exchange of data for operational purposes and collection of data for performance measurement, evaluation and policy research. facilitate the development, improvement and convergence of human service data standards, vocabularies, ontologies, and domain models by: cataloging human services ontologies worldwide, and creating a linked open data directory of the ontologies. the directory should contain metadata, such as audience, jurisdiction, potential ontology improvements, related ontologies, and other notes. see github site linked off the group page for group artifacts. fostering wider recognition of existing efforts and artifacts analyzing the strengths, limitations, and areas of overlap, agreement and divergence of existing efforts and artifacts identifying areas where standards do not yet exist, but are needed convening working groups of diverse composition to develop and improve standards promote the adoption of human services standards scope of work the boundary of the community group’s work is the set of substantive areas which are recognized in the united states and/or internationally as falling within the human service sector. this includes but is not limited to information and referral services, income support and other welfare benefits, employment training, homelessness, substance abuse, mental health, child welfare, juvenile justice, domestic violence, and senior services. the borders between the human service sector on the one hand and the health, education and justice sectors on the other hand are not firmly defined. the community group will be open to working on any area that is related to the human services and is not entirely within the boundaries of the health, education or justice sectors. deliverables to be determined. join group report a problem miniapps ecosystem created on 19 september 2019 (105 participants) a community group to incubate work on miniapps and serve as a base for analysis and proposals of specific work items join group report a problem community council created on 6 september 2011 (26 participants) the mission of the community council is to promote community and business groups and ensure that they function smoothly. the council's activities include: documenting good community practices, reaching out to new communities, identifying opportunities for collaboration between groups, helping groups transition to the standards track if they so desire, and routine group maintenance. the community council will also discuss existing and new features and other ways to enhance the community group experience. anyone may join the community council. in particular, w3c encourages chairs of other community and business groups to participate (e.g., in monthly meetings that will include w3c staff). this group will seek to make decisions when there is consensus and with due process. join group report a problem knowledge graph construction created on 8 january 2019 (132 participants) the overall goal of this community group is to support its participants into developing better methods for knowledge graphs construction. the community group will (i) study current knowledge graph construction methods and implementations, (ii) identify the corresponding requirements and issues that hinter broader knowledge graph construction, (iii) discuss use cases, (iv) formulate guidelines, best practices and test cases for knowledge graph construction, (v) develop methods, resources and tools for evaluating knowledge graphs construction, and in general (vi) continue the development of the w3c-recommended r2rml language beyond relational databases. the proposed community group could be instrumental to advance research, increase the level of education and awareness and enable learning and participation with respect to knowledge graph construction. join group report a problem linked data for language technology created on 9 december 2013 (104 participants) this group aims to consult with current and potential users of linguistic data to assemble use cases and requirements for language technology applications that use linked data. the results will be used to guide future interoperability, research and development activities spanning the language technology and linked data domains. potential users are companies and public bodies involved in natural language processing, language resources, content management, the language services and localisation industry and other applications of content analytics techniques used in search, recommender systems, sentiment analysis and terminology management. the group does engage with users through surveys, international events and training activities organized in conjunction with partners from academia or industry, resp. designated research projects and networking efforts (esp., eu or other multi-national projects). we identify use case and requirements priorities, technology gaps and interoperability roadblocks. we work towards community group reports that describe our findings and/or solutions to the challenges identified in our work. join group report a problem merchant created on 2 september 2020 (39 participants) the mission of the merchant community group (“merchant cg”) is to improve the web for people and organisations that sell goods or services, or accept donations online. this includes both business-to-business (b2b) merchants, business-to-consumer (b2c) merchants as well as not-for-profit donation acceptors. in this non-technical forum, participants will discuss merchant challenges, how emerging web technologies could help address them, and what additional web capabilities may be necessary. likely topics include: customer interaction, capture and retention via accessible immersive web experiences; web checkout experiences, including the value merchants should gain with w3c's web payments standards; emerging regulatory requirements (e.g., related to privacy or accessibility) and ensuring good customer experience; the evolution of web advertising; good practices for reducing online fraud; enhancements to transaction integrity and assurance; improving mobile web commerce experiences. scope participants will choose and prioritize discussion topics. activities in scope education about web technology trends and the impact on merchants, including through discussions with other w3c groups. these activities will include non-technical briefings. identification of current merchant challenges, best practices for addressing them, and how those practices may change for various reasons (e.g., due to evolving privacy practices). communication of merchant use cases and requirements to groups within and outside w3c. coordinating reviews of the work of other w3c groups (e.g., the web payments working group, web authentication working group or immersive web working group). it is a goal that this group enable high-bandwidth, two-way communication channels with other w3c groups. activities out of scope development of technical specifications. discussion of specific products or implementations consistent with w3c's antitrust and competition guidance. join group report a problem web media text tracks created on 30 september 2011 (50 participants) this group will work on text tracks for video on the web, applied to captioning, subtitling and other purposes. this group plans to work initially on: 1) documenting a semantic model underlying the caption formats in use, notably ttml, cea 608/708, ebu stl, and webvtt. 2) creating a community specification for webvtt. 3) defining the mappings between webvtt and some selected formats, including at least ttml (w3c/smpte), and cea 608/708. 4) creating web developer reference and tutorial material, including worked examples. 5) creating a test suite and/or tools. a possible transition to rec-track for some of these document(s) is envisaged and that possibility will be used to guide the work and procedures. the group may produce recommendations for work in other groups, such as css, html5, and ttwg. join group report a problem multicast created on 11 june 2021 (21 participants) the mission of the multicast web community group is to enable multicast ip transport for web traffic to efficiently solve scalability problems in networking and web operations. please see the charter for details. join group report a problem open ui created on 27 march 2020 (73 participants) the group will be researching components and controls across the web and also looking to native paradigms to bring interoperability for design systems, frameworks and the web platform. join group report a problem immersive captions created on 17 september 2019 (42 participants) the goal of this community group is to determine and publish best practices for access, activation, and display settings for captions with different types of immersive media - ar, vr & games. we plan to research current examples, identify best practices, and do research on those ideas over different surfaces: smartphone ar, ar glasses, vr goggles, etc. where appropriate, we will share our results and discuss opportunities with the ttml wg (recommendations for media online captioning) and the w3c immersive web wg (apis to interact with xr devices and sensors in browsers). join group report a problem audio created on 28 october 2018 (56 participants) a group to gather and incubate new features and requirements for the web audio api. making it easier for the community to engage with the audio working group. join group report a problem bioschemas for lifesciences created on 27 february 2017 (75 participants) bioschemas aims to improve data interoperability in life sciences. it does this by encouraging people in the life sciences to use schema.org markup, so that their websites and services contain consistently structured information. this structured information then makes it easier to discover, collate and analyse distributed data. the main outcome of the bioschemas community group will be a collection of specifications that provide guidelines to facilitate a more consistent adoption of schema.org markup within the life sciences. join group report a problem csv on the web created on 6 january 2016 (34 participants) discussions and mutual support for implementers, publishers and spec developers of the technologies developed by the csv on the web working group. the group is not chartered to change published w3c documents, but can record new issues, errata, and test cases for those specification. the cg may also discuss related work, e.g. r2rml or other potential extensions. join group report a problem owl: experiences and directions created on 29 may 2012 (37 participants) everything related to the web ontology language. join group report a problem xforms users created on 14 march 2012 (25 participants) a group for xforms users to discuss the use of xforms and propose changes and additions to the markup. join group report a problem odrl created on 29 june 2011 (59 participants) the odrl community group supports the promotion and future development of the w3c odrl recommendations: odrl information model odrl vocabulary & expression specifically, the odrl cg will: promote odrl v2.2 to existing and new sectors/industries nurture an odrl implementors community publish reports related to odrl usage support development of odrl profiles (and host for smaller communities) register odrl profiles collaborate with w3c on odrl errata maintenance plan for future major enhancements to odrl (v3.0) join group report a problem document services created on 20 february 2021 (9 participants) document services are client-local, on-prem, or remote services upon documents, portions of documents, or selections of document content. examples of document services include: spellchecking, grammar checking, proofreading, fact checking, mathematical proof checking, reasoning checking, argumentation checking, and narrative checking. the document services community group intends to, in coordination with other groups, create a general-purpose architecture, api's, and protocols for both free and paid-subscription-based document services to convenience document service providers and to equip and empower end-users who will be able to make use of multiple document services simultaneously to better author and review documents. join group report a problem entity reconciliation created on 11 june 2019 (42 participants) matching entities across data sources using different identifiers and formats is a pervasive issue on the web. this group revolves around developing a web api that data providers can expose, which eases the reconciliation of third-party data to their own identifiers. openrefine's reconciliation api is used as a starting point. our goals are to document this existing api, share our experiences and lessons learnt from it, propose an improved protocol in the view of promoting it as a standard, and build tooling around it. a description of the existing protocol can be found here: https://github.com/openrefine/openrefine/wiki/reconciliation-service-api join group report a problem interledger payments created on 6 october 2015 (400 participants) the primary goal of the interledger payments community group is connecting the many payment networks (ledgers) around the world via the web. the group's vision is an open, universal payment scheme built on web standards that allows any payer to pay any payee regardless of the payer’s choice of payment instrument or the payee’s account. join group report a problem w3c developer relations created on 22 march 2012 (36 participants) developers and designers form an important audience for w3c standards, but the standards process itself is not an ideal way to engage with them. w3c has made strides in terms of developer relations in recent years, through w3conf, web education xg and cg, easy access to w3c through community groups, more documentation, and online training. more can be done to reach more people and better reflect their interests in w3c. initial ideas: * create a developer relations activity or domain, to coordinate and explore different ways to directly engage with developers and designers, to gain early feedback on our specifications. * make w3c a home for more useful documentation, demos, etc. * support developer advocacy, in which ideas, use cases, and requirements for features or specification fixes are collected in detail from developers and designers, and presented to the appropriate w3c groups. * liaise with members' developer relations departments on projects of mutual benefit. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem chemistry for the web and publishing created on 14 may 2019 (28 participants) the "chemistry for the web and publishing" community group will focus on moving beyond simply providing images of chemistry content on the web and in published materials to a semantically rich form that will work for everybody, including persons with disabilities. join group report a problem webauthn adoption created on 23 april 2020 (49 participants) this group helps coordinate research and actions to help with broader adoption of the web authentication ecosystem. group participants will contribute to identifying the obstacles that slow down adoption of webauthn - these obstacles may be e.g. technical, business-related, linked to communication or training. based on this analysis, the group participants will work together in addressing these challenges. this group will not produce specifications. join group report a problem information architecture created on 8 february 2013 (53 participants) the w3c information architecture community group is for anyone interested in information architecture and standards, and to participate, discuss, share, support, develop, and learn about them. join group report a problem webextensions created on 3 june 2021 (97 participants) we will specify a model, permissions, and a common core of apis for web browser extensions. by specifying the apis, functionality, and permissions of webextensions, we can make it even easier for extension developers to enhance end user experience, while moving them towards apis that improve performance and prevent abuse. charter: https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/charter.md join group report a problem consent created on 12 november 2020 (50 participants) the concept of consent plays an essential role in the use of digital technologies as an enabler of the individual’s ownership, control, and agency. regulations such as the gdpr assert this relationship by permitting use of consent as one of the possible legal bases for the lawful practice of data processing. through this, obtaining consent is widely practised in the digital world, and can be perceived as an essential means to enable the individual’s agency regarding the management and ownership of their personal data. while different legal frameworks specify various requirements and obligations regarding the legal validity of consent, which should be, e.g. valid, freely given, specific, informed and active; existing and ongoing research shows that the majority of people are not empowered to practice their digital right to privacy and lawful "consenting" due to various malpractices and a lack of technological means acting in the individuals' interest. this group aims to contribute towards the empowerment of humans concerning their rights of privacy and agency, by advocating interdisciplinary, pluralist, human-centric approaches to digital consent that are technologically and legally enforceable. the mission of this group is to improve the experience of digital "consenting" while ensuring it remains adherent to relevant standards and laws. for this, the group will: (i) provide a space for people and stakeholders to come together (ii) highlight and analyse concepts, issues and problems about digital consenting (iii) propose and develop solutions. some concrete areas for the working of this group are: (a) developing interdisciplinary solutions; (b) documenting and achieving legal compliance; (c) improving the user experience; and (d) utilising existing and developing new concepts and standards for digital consent. join group report a problem rights automation for market data created on 13 march 2020 (39 participants) the aim of the rights automation for market data community group is to develop and publish a market-data profile for odrl. market data is mostly the pricing and trading data for financial instruments (and their associated indices) generated by trading venues. the licenses controlling its use are frequently complex, and tightly segment the underlying data. we will model these licenses using odrl and extend the language with a profile that defines the new terms required. this group will publish specifications. with a standard, machine-readable way of describing market data licenses, we can look towards automating rights-management along the market data supply chain and drive efficiencies in financial markets. the group welcomes the involvement of domain experts in licensing (especially market data) and those skilled in modeling licenses (especially using odrl). if you are not a group participant you can still subscribe to our list. join group report a problem text and data mining reservation protocol created on 20 january 2021 (34 participants) the goal of this group is to facilitate text and data mining (tdm) reservation protocol in europe and elsewhere, by specifying a simple and practical machine-readable solution, capable of expressing the reservation of tdm rights - following the rules set by the new european dsm directive / art.4 - and the availability of machine-readable licenses for tdm actors. join group report a problem privacy created on 17 january 2020 (401 participants) the mission of the privacy community group is to develop privacy-focused web standards and apis to improve user privacy on the web through enhanced browser behavior. charter: https://privacycg.github.io/charter.html join group report a problem anti-fraud created on 4 november 2021 (39 participants) the mission of the anti fraud community group is to identify and define scenarios involving fraud and unwanted traffic, as well as to incubate and develop web features and apis to address those scenarios while improving user security, privacy, and accessibility. fraud and unwanted traffic can include web activity perpetrated by botnets, attackers impersonating users, and other activity that intends to harm users or compromise web services. the group welcomes participation from anti-fraud service providers, common targets of unwanted traffic, browser vendors, web privacy advocates, web application developers, web hosting and cloud service providers, and other interested parties. the community group will discuss issues that server operators and anti-fraud service providers face in this area and ideas for new web features and apis intended to be implemented in browsers or similar user agents. join group report a problem publishing created on 22 october 2018 (84 participants) incubation zone for publishing@w3c. bring your experiments here. join group report a problem positive work environment created on 25 august 2018 (51 participants) w3c is a global community where participants choose to work together. in that community, we experience differences in language, location, nationality, and experience. in such a diverse environment, misunderstandings and disagreements happen, and in most cases can be resolved informally. this cg will pick up the work of the pwe task force (https://www.w3.org/consortium/pwe/) focusing on the code of ethics and professional conduct. join group report a problem opentrack created on 31 january 2017 (38 participants) this group aims to develop an open standard for interchange of data in athletics (including track and field), running and related disciplines. such a standard should allow the development of better software to manage the sport, resulting in major savings of time for volunteers; more efficient management of events and federations; and more enjoyment for participants and fans. join group report a problem act rules created on 4 april 2019 (88 participants) the act rules community group (previously known as auto-wcag), is an open forum set up to document and harmonise the interpretation of w3c accessibility standards, such as wcag and wai-aria, for testing purposes. the act rules community group (act-r) achieves this by bringing together the people developing, implementing and using various accessibility testing tools and methodologies to document interpretations as test rules. test rules are defined using the act rules format, and reviewed by the community. the process of researching, documenting, and sharing knowledge from different perspectives within the group, builds towards a common understanding. publishing rules is not an end point for harmonization, it's a starting point. by publishing such test rules, act-r hopes to motivate organisations to share their own insights, and encourage adoption of commonly agreed test rules. act-r is not set up to remove differences or impose changes on accessibility testing tools and methodologies. there is value in innovation and diverse approaches. rather it aims to contribute to more consistent results, regardless of how the testing is done. knowing when something meets a requirement, and when it does not, should be clear and consistent. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem publishing created on 11 february 2017 (65 participants) the publishing business group fosters ongoing participation by members of the publishing industry and overall publishing ecosystem in the development of the web for publishing, and serves as a conduit for feedback between the publishing ecosystem and w3c. see the publishing business group charter for details. the business group maintains a separate “working” web site, which includes documents, like information on meetings, index for meeting minutes, and other working documents. there is also a separate wiki for bg members. finally, if necessary or convenient, google documents can also be used; these are collected in a separate google drive folder. (the working web site’s content is actually served from a dedicated github repository.) join group report a problem w3c process created on 3 november 2011 (46 participants) examine the way w3c works. propose improvements to the formal processes. these will be given to the advisory board, which currently manages that process. join group report a problem cognitive ai created on 10 december 2019 (32 participants) the real world is frustratingly uncertain, incomplete and inconsistent. this is challenging for traditional approaches to information systems, and a new paradigm is needed that combines symbolic and statistical techniques, building upon decades of work in the cognitive sciences, and over 500 million years of natural selection. this will allow us to create cognitive agents that learn and reason based upon prior knowledge and past experience, and which can satisfy the need for, transparency in decision making, and continuous learning for adapting to ever changing needs. this community group will address opportunities for cognitive agents using graphs, statistics, rules and graph algorithms, starting with an amalgam of rdf and property graphs, together with web architecture for cognitive databases. more specifically, the cognitive ai community group will work on use cases and requirements, demo's, open source, and scaling experiments. for more details, see: • cognitive ai cg github repository • chunks and rules specification • keynote on cognitive ai for the 2020 summer school on ai in industry 4.0 • an older talk on cognitive ai and the sentient web • longer treatise on cognitive ai • public mailing list archive • contributing to the cognitive ai community group join group report a problem music notation created on 27 july 2015 (324 participants) the music notation community group develops and maintains format and language specifications for notated music used by web, desktop, and mobile applications. the group aims to serve a broad range of users engaging in music-related activities involving notation, and will document these use cases. the initial task of the community group is to maintain and update the musicxml and smufl (standard music font layout) specifications. the goals are to evolve the specifications to handle new use cases and technologies, including greater use of music notation on the web, while maximizing the existing investment in implementations of the existing musicxml 3.0 and smufl specifications. join group report a problem shacl created on 20 june 2017 (49 participants) the mission of the shacl community group is to continue the development of shacl-related specifications and to support the further adoption of shacl after the w3c data shapes working group has ended. desirable outcomes include the development of educational material (primers, best practices), the application of shacl to frequently used rdf vocabularies, libraries of constraint components for common constraint types, improved integration with established technologies such as javascript, further work on theory and practice around shacl rules, a compact shacl syntax, and a shacl internet protocol. additional work may go into delivering "de-facto standard" fixes to some gaps left in the current shacl specifications (e.g., handling recursion, and addressing more comprehensive syntax checks). join group report a problem accessibility discoverability vocabulary for schema.org created on 28 october 2021 (8 participants) the primary objective of this group is to maintain and develop the vocabularies for the accessibility discoverability properties in schema.org, that enable discovery of accessible content. this community group is a successor to the accessibility metadata project that first proposed the properties, which were based on the access for all metadata. the group may also propose additional properties in the future, if needed. join group report a problem color on the web created on 27 january 2017 (66 participants) discussion forum between css experts, color management experts, and tv/movie/broadcast experts to explore use cases and inform w3c specification work (such as css color 4 and subsequent levels). both sdr and hdr are in scope. wide gamut displays and the web is in scope. web use of icc (v.4 and iccmax) is in scope. join group report a problem second screen created on 7 november 2013 (67 participants) the mission of the second screen community group (cg) is to explore, incubate, and define interfaces that enable new form factors and usages for multi-display and multi-window computing user experiences on the web. the scope of work for this community group extends beyond the current scope of the second screen working group (wg). given wider support and adequate stability, we plan to migrate the proposals generated in this community group to an appropriate w3c working group for further contributions and formal standardization. join group report a problem data privacy vocabularies and controls created on 24 may 2018 (75 participants) the mission of the w3c data privacy vocabularies and controls cg (dpvcg) is to develop a taxonomy of privacy and data protection related terms, which include in particular terms from the new european general data protection regulation (gdpr), such as a taxonomy of personal data as well as a classification of purposes (i.e., purposes for data collection), and events of disclosures, consent, and processing such personal data. the dpvcg was created as an outcome of the w3c workshop on data privacy controls and vocabularies in vienna in 2017, and started on 25th may 2018 – the date of the enforcement of gdpr. since then, the dpvcg has worked to fulfil its aims and objectives, and produced the data privacy vocabulary (dpv) as a deliverable. membership to the group is open to all interested individuals and organisations. to join the group, you need a valid w3c account – which is free to get and can be requested here. the group meets usually through online meeting calls, details of which, including past minutes, can be found here. the group also interacts through a mailing list regarding topics, discussions, sharing of agendas, actions, and other relevant items. the resources and work relevant to the group is hosted on the github platform under the dpvcg name. the group is currently chaired by: harshvardhan j. pandit (adapt sfi research centre, trinity college dublin) bert bos (ercim w3c) axel polleres (wu wirschaftsuniversitat wien – vienna university of economics and business) participation in group activities the working of the group is fairly open and transparent in its process, with most of the information present on the wiki. for past work, actions, issues, and records – please refer to the wiki and threads on the mailing list. anyone can use the mailing list to ask questions, suggest topics, raise issues, and offer solutions. non-members might receive an automated reply asking them to authenticate their email or email address for posting. similarly, calls are usually open to attend, with the agenda shared on the public mailing list. call details may be shared on the internal mailing lists accessible to only members for security purposes – so it may be best to ask the chair(s) or a member for attending a call. general questions regarding what the group considers in scope can be determined from the aims and objectives. specific queries or propositions should be conveyed to the mailing list. for issues regarding the dpv, including addition of concepts or a query or other relevant topics – you can use the mailing list or the issues feature in a github repo. data privacy vocabulary (dpv) the dpv is a vocabulary (terms) and an ontology (relationships) serialised using semantic-web standards to represent concepts associated with privacy and data protection, primarily derived from gdpr. it enables representation of which personal data categories are undergoing a what kind of processing by a specific data controller and/or transferred to some recipient for a particular purpose, based on a specific legal basis (e.g., consent, or other legal grounds such as legitimate interest, etc.), with specified technical and organisational measures and restrictions (e.g., storage locations and storage durations) in place. the dpv is useful as a machine-readable representation of personal data processing and can be adopted in relevant use-cases such as legal compliance documentation and evaluation, policy specification, consent representation and requests, taxonomy of legal terms, and annotation of text and data. the dpv is an evolving vocabulary – as the dpvcg continues to work on updating it with broader concepts as well as enriching its hierarchy of concepts. for this, we invite contributions of concepts, use-cases, requirements, and applications. join group report a problem federated identity created on 6 july 2021 (131 participants) the purpose of the federated identity community group is to provide a forum focused on incubating web features that will both support federated identity and prevent untransparent, uncontrollable tracking of users across the web. while the community group will take privacy concerns into consideration, these concerns will be balanced against the need to explore innovative ideas around federated authentication on the web. join group report a problem epub 3 created on 6 february 2017 (266 participants) the epub 3 community group is a forum for ongoing technical development of epub 3 and related extension specifications and ancillary deliverables. the epub 3 community group charter contains full details. join group report a problem rdf javascript libraries created on 2 october 2013 (76 participants) the rdf javascript libraries community group discusses implementations of libraries for working with rdf and linked data in ecmascript platforms like web browsers and node.js join group report a problem ontology-lexica created on 3 july 2011 (131 participants) the mission of the ontology-lexicon community group is to: (1) develop models for the representation of lexica (and machine readable dictionaries) relative to ontologies. these lexicon models are intended to represent lexical entries containing information about how ontology elements (classes, properties, individuals etc.) are realized in multiple languages. in addition, the lexical entries contain appropriate linguistic (syntactic, morphological, semantic and pragmatic) information that constrains the usage of the entry. (2) demonstrate the added value of representing lexica on the semantic web, in particularly focusing on how the use of linked data principles can allow for the re-use of existing linguistic information from resource such as wordnet. (3) provide best practices for the use of linguistic data categories in combination with lexica. (4) demonstrate that the creation of such lexica in combination with the semantics contained in ontologies can improve the performance of nlp tools. (5) bring together people working on standards for representing linguistic information (syntactic, morphological, semantic and pragmatic) building on existing initiatives, and identifying collaboration tracks for the future. (6) cater for interoperability among existing models to represent and structure linguistic information. (7) demonstrate the added value of applications relying on the use of the combination of lexica and ontologies. join group report a problem voice interaction created on 7 june 2016 (39 participants) existing w3c voice interaction standards such as voicexml are based on use cases centered around telephony-based voice systems. the typical interaction style that these standards support is system-initiated directed dialog using grammars to constrain the speech recognizer. in recent years, interaction with voice applications has become much more flexible, with a user-initiated dialog style and significantly fewer constraints on spoken input. many of these new applications take the form of "virtual assistants". these include general-purpose assistants (for example, siri, cortana, google now and alexa) as well as virtual assistants with specialized domain expertise. the proposed community group will collect new use cases for voice interaction, develop requirements for applications such as virtual assistants and explore areas for possible standardization, possibly producing specifications if appropriate. depending on interest, this exploration could include such topics as (1) discovery of virtual assistants with specific expertise, for example a way to find a virtual assistant that can supply weather information (2) standard formats for statistical language models for speech recognizers (3) standard representations for references to common concepts such as time (4) interoperability for conversational interfaces and (5) work on dialogue management or ‘workflow' languages . new functionality for existing voice standards can also be a topic of discussion. speech application developers and voice user interface designers should be particularly interested in this group. join group report a problem accessibility for children created on 6 december 2019 (25 participants) the mission of this group is to discuss accessibility adapted for children (age appropriate, literacy relevant). join group report a problem metaverse interoperability created on 27 april 2021 (46 participants) our mission is to bridge virtual worlds by designing and promoting protocols for identity, social graphs, inventory, and more. join group report a problem ai kr (artificial intelligence knowledge representation) created on 3 july 2018 (70 participants) welcome post group's wiki see also the group's pages from the right-hand side menu the overall goal/mission of this community group is to explore the requirements, best practices and implementation options for the conceptualization and specification of domain knowledge in ai. we plan to place particular emphasis on the identification and the representation of ai facets and various aspects (technology, legislation, ethics etc) with the purpose to facilitate knowledge exchange and reuse. therefore the proposed outcomes could be instrumental to research and advancement of science and inquiry, as well as to increase the level of public awareness in general to enable learning and participation. proposed outcomes: a comprehensive list of open access resources in both ai and kr (useful to teaching and research) a set of metadata derived from these resources a concept map of the domain a natural language vocabulary to represent various aspects of ai one or more encoding/implementations/ machine language version of the vocabulary, such as chatbot natural language understanding & natural language generation methods for kr management, especially natural language learning / semantic memory who should join: researchers and practitioners with an interest in developing ai kr artifacts (ontology, machine learning, markup languages) editable doc. join group report a problem improving web advertising created on 7 november 2017 (377 participants) the mission of the improving web advertising business group is to identify areas where standards and changes in the web itself can improve the ecosystem and experience for users, advertisers, publishers, distributors, ad networks, agencies and others, and to oversee liaison with existing working groups and to create new working groups as needed join group report a problem read write web created on 16 august 2011 (68 participants) the activity of this group is to apply web standards to trusted read and write operations. join group report a problem spec editors created on 12 april 2021 (59 participants) the spec editors community group aims to be an inclusive space where spec editors, and those wanting to become spec editors, can learn from each other. the spec ed cg focuses on the practice (the art?) of writing technical specifications across the web ecosystem (w3c, whatwg, ecma, ietf, etc.). by looking across the ecosystem, we hope to improve our specification development practices at the w3c. as part of this cg, we hope to run hands-on virtual tutorial sessions that will cover: spec writing: writing algorithms, types of statements. tooling: respec and bikeshed. testing: web platform tests. how review specs: what to look for, commenting on pull requests. leveraging fundamental technologies: webidl, infra standard, html, etc. using github effectively for spec development: labels, milestones, managing your community. more things! let us know... join group report a problem web components created on 6 december 2020 (69 participants) this group is for collaboration between people working on web components libraries, tools, documentation and standards. we will work together on projects of shared interest in order to enhance interoperability, solve common problems, build shared community resources, and ultimately continue to grow a cooperative, productive, and happy web components ecosystem. areas we expect to work on include gap analysis, design principles, common protocols, discoverability and quality, documentation, tooling, and more. join group report a problem notation 3 (n3) created on 27 november 2018 (33 participants) further development, implementation, and standardization of notation 3 - an assertion and logic language - including the n3 rules language. join group report a problem credible web created on 28 october 2017 (100 participants) the mission of the w3c credible web community group is to help shift the web toward more trustworthy content without increasing censorship or social division. we want users to be able to tell when content is reliable, accurate, and shared in good faith, and to help them steer away from deceptive content. at the same time, we affirm the need for users to find the content they want and to interact freely in the communities they choose. to balance any conflict between these goals, we are committed to providing technologies which keep end-users in control of their web experience. the group's primary strategy involves data sharing on the web, in the style of schema.org, using existing w3c data standards like json-ld. we believe significant progress toward our goals can be reached by properly specifying "credibility indicators", a vocabulary/schema for data about content and the surrounding ecosystem, which can help a person and/or machine decide whether a content item should be trusted. please see the group wiki for more details. join group report a problem design tokens created on 31 july 2019 (218 participants) the design tokens community group's goal is to provide standards upon which products and design tools can rely for sharing stylistic pieces of a design system at scale. join group report a problem web nfc created on 12 march 2015 (43 participants) the web nfc community group will create a near field communication api that is browser-friendly and adheres to the web's security model. we believe that means the api will not expose full, low level nfc functionality, but rather a higher level subset that is safe for web pages, protects user privacy, and does not annoy users with unnecessary or complex permission requests. see the web nfc community group charter and the web nfc specification for more information. join group report a problem research object for scholarly communication created on 8 april 2013 (70 participants) research investigations are increasingly collaborative and require ‘‘borrowing strength’’ from the outputs of other research. conventional digital publications are becoming less sufficient for the scientists to access, share, communicate, and enable the reuse of scientific outputs. the need to have a community-wide container data model to encapsulate the actual research data and methods with all the contextual information essential for interpreting and reusing them is becoming more and more imperative, for the science, publisher, as well as digital library communities. a number of different community groups and projects are now creating some form of container, bundling or aggregation mechanism (particularly using ore oai), partially driven by the above goal. there is a clear need and benefit to facilitate a consensus among these representations. in the rosc community group we aim to provide an open platform for gathering and discussing current development of various container models and their implementations. these data models should be driven by the need of facilitating the reuse and exchange of the actual digital knowledge and the inspection of the reproducibility of scientific investigation results. they should consider not only the data used, methods employed to produce and analyse that data, but also the people involved in the investigation and annotations about these resources, which are essential to the understanding and interpretation of the scientific outcomes. as outcomes from the community group we aim to facilitate the establishment of a community data model and a set of community agreements that can effectively assist the establishment of a new form of scholarly communication, that is a prominent issue of today. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem invisible markup created on 16 march 2021 (19 participants) we choose which representations of our data to use, json, csv, xml, or whatever, depending on habit, convenience, or the context we want to use that data in. on the other hand, having an interoperable generic toolchain such as that provided by xml to process data is of immense value. how do we resolve the conflicting requirements of convenience, habit, and context, and still enable a generic toolchain? invisible xml (ixml) is a method for treating non-xml documents as if they were xml, enabling authors to write documents and data in a format they prefer while providing xml for processes that are more effective with xml content. this is an ongoing project to provide software that lets you treat any parsable format as if it were xml, without the need for markup. join group report a problem cognitive accessibility created on 9 august 2021 (56 participants) mission the mission of the coga community group is to work with and support the cognitive and learning disabilities accessibility (coga) task force to improve web accessibility for people with cognitive and learning disabilities. this group supports the coga task force by supplying user needs and feedback. scope the coga community group’s work will include: - sharing challenges when using the web and other digital displays - suggesting user needs - helping with research - suggesting ways to improve accessibility for the community - reviewing coga’s drafts - outreach and collecting feedback from the community - helping with policy and the business cases for coga guidance - having open meetings to discuss these points open meetings may be live video conferences or in other discussion formats participation you do not need to be an expert in all topics related to cognitive accessibility to join the community group. the coga community group will work in smaller groups for specific subjects, giving you the opportunity to participate on the topics you choose. the coga community group will also work together on some topics, brainstorming and building a community dedicated to improved access for all. anyone can join this group as long as they follow the community guidelines. however, the community group will specifically benefit from including: - people with learning and cognitive disabilities, people with mental health challenges, - caregivers, therapists and people who work with people with learning, cognitive challenges and in mental health, - researchers, developers, quality assurance professionals, and user interface experts, industry, looking to share and support ideas, and policy makers. additional details of participation - joining the coga community group does not involve joining the coga task force. - if you would prefer to join this group anonymously, please send an email to ran@w3.org. - the community group will not publish specifications, but may make suggestions to the coga taskforce. - for more information about community groups, please visit community and business groups frequently asked questions. - short link to this document: bit.ly/coga-community join group report a problem openactive created on 11 april 2016 (106 participants) this community group is part of the openactive initiative. our goal is to develop technical specifications and best practices that will support the use of open and shared data relating to sports and physical activities. our primary focus is on standardising how to publish data about opportunities to be physically activity, defining best practices and apis to enable booking of events and facilities, and improving interoperability of data across the sector. to ensure that our specifications will support a variety of use cases, we welcome contributions from a range of organisations, including existing platforms and new startups. while our work is technical, you don’t have to be a developer to contribute to our standards group. we are looking for input from product and service managers whose domain knowledge can help us to create better outputs. join group report a problem rdf-dev created on 16 october 2018 (76 participants) rdf-dev, for developments relating to w3c rdf, including collaboration around applications, schemas, and past/present/future related standards. successor to swig/rdfig. join group report a problem schema.org created on 31 march 2015 (450 participants) the schema.org community group provides a forum for discussing all changes, additions and extensions to schema.org. in addition to providing a public setting for the day to day operation of the project, it serves as the mechanism for reviewing extensions and as a liaison point for all parties developing independent extensions to the schema.org core. join group report a problem web bluetooth created on 31 july 2014 (102 participants) bluetooth is a standard for short-range wireless communication between devices. this group is developing a specification for bluetooth apis to allow websites to communicate with devices in a secure and privacy-preserving way. in particular the web bluetooth api focuses on minimizing the device attack surface exposed to malicious websites, possibly by removing access to some existing bluetooth features that are hard to implement securely. further, the api takes the approach of a user interface to select and approve access to devices as opposed to using certification and installation. most of our activity happens in our github repository, with supporting code in adjacent repositories in the webbluetoothcg github organization. join group report a problem solid created on 3 october 2018 (221 participants) the aims of the solid project are in line with those of the web itself: empowerment towards an equitable, informed and interconnected society. solid adds to existing web standards to realise a space where individuals can maintain their autonomy, control their data and privacy, and choose applications and services to fulfil their needs. the mission of the solid community group is to describe how solid servers and clients can be interoperable by using web communication protocols, global identifiers, authentication and authorization mechanisms, data formats and shapes, and query interfaces. to contribute towards a net positive social benefit, we use the ethical web principles to orient ourselves. the consensus on the technical designs are informed by common use cases, implementation experience, and use. solid technical reports lists work items, information on how to participate, and the solid of code of conduct (in addition to the positive work environment at w3c: code of ethics and professional conduct.) join group report a problem private advertising technology created on 14 october 2021 (138 participants) the mission of the private advertising technology community group is to incubate web features and apis that support advertising while acting in the interests of users, in particular providing strong privacy assurances. join group report a problem xproc next created on 26 july 2017 (22 participants) create a place for gathering requirements from existing and potential users of xproc, research in this area, and for supporting and writing the community-driven effort to define an xproc 3.0 specification (formerly 1.1) . join group report a problem permanent identifier created on 15 february 2013 (39 participants) the permanent identifier community group maintains a secure, permanent ul re-direction service for the web located at w3id.org. web applications that deal with linked data often need to specify and use urls that are very stable. they utilize services such as the one run by this community to ensure that applications using their urls will always be re-directed to a working website. the concept operates much like a switchboard, connecting requests for information with the true location of the information on the web. entries in the switchboard can be reconfigured to point to a new location if the old location stops working. the community is responsible for all administrative tasks associated with operating the service. the social contract between organizations involved in the community gives each of them full access to all information required to maintain and operate the website. the agreement is setup such that a number of these organizations could fail, lose interest, or become unresponsive for long periods of time without negatively affecting the operation of the site. the service operates in https-only mode to ensure end-to-end security. this means that it may be used for linked data applications that require high levels of security such as those found in the financial, medical, and public infrastructure sectors. all identifiers associated with the service are intended to be around for as long as the web is around. this means decades, if not centuries. if the final destination for popular identifiers used by this service fail in such a way as to be a major inconvenience or danger to the web, the community will mirror the information for the popular identifier and setup a working redirect to restore service to the rest of the web. you may join this community by getting a w3c account and clicking the join button. if you wish to engage the community in discussion about this service for your web application, please send an e-mail to the public-perma-id@w3.org mailing list. this group does not create specifications. join group report a problem maps for html created on 27 march 2014 (53 participants) the maps in html community group seeks to establish at least one hypermedia type which can be considered to be consumed by a (new) "map" element for html. follow-on from bar camp at #lgd14. the objective will be to define a hypermedia type which can be linked to from a hypothetical (but prototyped in web components) "map" or (geo-map for web components) element which will provide simple mashup capabilities and user interface. this group will publish specifications. join group report a problem aria and assistive technologies created on 30 november 2018 (73 participants) how wai-aria is supported by assistive technologies, such as screen readers, is highly variable. this variation in wai-aria rendering adds unnecessary complexity to the development of high-quality web experiences for users of assistive technologies and places significant limitations on the types of web widgets that can be made widely accessible. this community group is dedicated to: 1. helping assistive technology developers converge on a set of clear norms for baseline support of wai-aria. 2. helping web developers understand the current state of support for wai-aria by assistive technologies. wai-aria is as important to assistive technology presentation as css is to visual presentation. join us to help make wai-aria as reliable as css. this group will not publish specifications. join group report a problem immersive web created on 1 march 2016 (288 participants) our goal is to help bring high-performance virtual reality and augmented reality to the open web. join group report a problem silver created on 2 march 2017 (216 participants) support the research and prototyping of the next major version of web content accessibility guidelines (wcag). this group may publish specifications. join group report a problem social web incubator created on 18 november 2016 (113 participants) the social web incubator community group (also known as socialcg, or swicg) is the successor of the social web working group, which ran from 2014 to 2017. the socialcg provides space to collaborate and coordinate for implementors who are building on any of the specifications published by the social web wg, and related technologies. it is also a place to incubate new proposals which build on or complement the social web wg recommendations. discussions and meeting announcements happen on the socialhub forum or on project-specific version control repositories. meetings are not always weekly, but can be requested or convened by any member of the group. if you have a specific item to discuss, please contact a chair if you need help with meeting logistics, and make a post on the socialhub forum, ideally with two or more weeks notice. join group report a problem webassembly created on 29 april 2015 (1350 participants) the mission of this group is to promote early-stage cross-browser collaboration on a new, portable, size- and load-time-efficient format suitable for compilation to the web. join group report a problem credentials created on 6 august 2014 (442 participants) the mission of the w3c credentials community group is to explore the creation, storage, presentation, verification, and user control of credentials. we focus on a verifiable credential (a set of claims) created by an issuer about a subject—a person, group, or thing—and seek solutions inclusive of approaches such as: self-sovereign identity; presentation of proofs by the bearer; data minimization; and centralized, federated, and decentralized registry and identity systems. our tasks include drafting and incubating internet specifications for further standardization and prototyping and testing reference implementations. join group report a problem web machine learning created on 3 october 2018 (119 participants) the mission of the web machine learning community group (webml cg) is to make machine learning a first-class web citizen by incubating and developing a dedicated low-level web api for machine learning inference in the browser. please see the charter for more information. the group invites browser engine developers, hardware vendors, web application developers, and the broader web community with interest in machine learning to participate. join group report a problem gpu for the web created on 7 february 2017 (251 participants) the mission of the gpu on the web community group is to provide an interface between the web platform and modern 3d graphics and computation capabilities present in native system platforms. the goal is to design a new web api that exposes these modern technologies in a performant, powerful and safe manner. it should work with existing platform apis such as direct3d 12 from microsoft, metal from apple, and vulkan from the khronos group. this api will also expose the generic computational facilities available in today's gpus to the web, and investigate shader languages to produce a cross-platform solution. please see the draft charter. the group is inviting browser engine developers, gpu hardware vendors, 3d software engineers, as well as the broader web community who have an interest in 3d graphics and efficient computation to participate. join group report a problem web platform incubator created on 2 july 2015 (783 participants) the web platform incubator community group (wicg) provides a lightweight venue for proposing and discussing new web platform features. please see the charter for more information. join group report a problem footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq sponsor / donate site map feedback (archive) w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply. log in x username: password: remember me log in or request an account