jump to content about products commitments stories expanding opportunity protecting users including all voices responding to crises advancing sustainability reports view all reports committed to significantly improving the lives of as many people as possible. 2004 founders’ ipo letter expanding opportunity $1 billion in grants. 1 million volunteer hours. providing people with information, tools and services to help them build knowledge, fuel curiosity, and unlock opportunity. powering education through technology, tools and training. discover more about learning for school nurturing lifelong curiosity, from the epic quests to the everyday asks. discover more about learning for life helping people grow their skills, careers, and businesses. discover more about learning for work u.s. economic impact report in 2020, google products, youtube, and google play helped provide $426b of economic activity for more than 2 million american businesses, nonprofits, publishers, creators and developers. learn more contributing time, money, and volunteer hours to create a world that works for everyone. learn more about google.org helping organizations publicize their mission, engage supporters, and fundraise online. learn more about google for nonprofits protecting users every day google keeps billions of people safer online. we protect our users with industry-leading security, responsible data practices, and easy-to-use privacy controls. learn about all the ways that google keeps your personal information private, safe, and secure. go to safety center easy-to-use privacy and security settings, all in one place—your google account. go to your account understand your tech usage, disconnect when needed, and create healthy habits. learn more about digital wellbeing developing ai practices that are responsible and sharing knowledge, research, and other resources with the world. learn more about responsible ai transparency report sharing data that sheds light on how the policies and actions of governments and corporations affect privacy, security, and access to information. learn more including all voices building a world where progress, equitable outcomes, diversity, and inclusion can be realities both inside and outside our workplace. building sustainable equity for google’s black+ community and making our products and programs helpful to black users. read our commitments to racial equity committed to building a diverse workforce that’s more representative of all people who use our products. learn more about diversity technology must be accessible for everyone. we are making that a reality in everything that we build. learn more about accessibility standing with organizations that use data science and innovative approaches to reduce disparate racial outcomes learn more about google.org’s commitment to racial justice 2021 diversity annual report we’re advancing a diverse, accessible, and inclusive google where everyone feels like they belong. check out our progress. learn more responding to crises helping those affected by crises through our products, our people, and our partners. we partner with first responders on the front lines of global crises by providing grants, resources, and volunteers. learn more about google.org crisis response we provide critical information to users in moments of crisis through our products and technology. learn more about crisis response products advancing sustainability we unify our practices, partnerships, and products around a single mission — to foster sustainability at scale. by organizing information about our planet, and making it actionable through technology, we help people make more positive impact together. we build technology that helps people do more for the planet. learn more about sustainability google's third decade of climate action — our most ambitious yet. learn about how we intend to operate carbon-free by 2030 2020 environmental report we’re reducing the environmental impact of our operations and working to empower people everywhere to live more sustainably. learn more responsible supply chain report we work with more than 500 suppliers worldwide to ensure ethical and fair treatment for workers, safe and healthy workplaces, and a smaller environmental footprint. learn more back to top follow us more about us contact us investor relations careers locations blog press resources brand resource center think with google policy application security software principles unwanted software policy extended workforce community guidelines how our business works responsibility google.org sustainability crisis response diversity & inclusion accessibility transparency digital wellbeing safety center google safety engineering center supplier responsibility human rights help privacy terms