w3c standards participate membership about w3c main media groups media & entertainment interest group the media & entertainment interest group acts as a steering committee for media-related standardization efforts at w3c. the group gathers feedback from media companies and external organizations about media related aspects of the web platform, tracks on-going works at w3c and elsewhere, and dispatches media work items to the appropriate group(s) at w3c. more info media working group the media working group standardizes core client-side media processing and playback features on the web, e.g. media capabilities, webcodecs and revisions of media source extensions (mse) and encrypted media extensions (eme). more info timed text working group the timed text working group develops standards for media online captioning, notably ttml and webvtt. more info audio working group the audio working group develops the web audio api to add advanced sound and music synthesis capabilities to the web. more info immersive web working group the immersive web working group brings virtual reality and augmented reality (collectively known as xr) devices to web applications. more info gpu for the web working group the gpu for the web working group provides an interface between the web platform and modern 3d graphics and computation capabilities present on native system platforms through the webgpu and wgsl specifications. more info second screen working group the second screen working group develops the presentation api, the remote playback api and the open screen protocol to enable use of secondary screens to display web content. more info skip w3c » media & entertainment activity media & entertainment activity the open web platform has transformed media consumption the open web platform has been the driver of the transformation of the media industry. the <audio> and <video> elements in html, media source extensions (mse), encrypted media extensions (eme) and the timed text markup language (ttml) form the backbone of media streaming experiences on the web. together, these emmy® award winning technologies have revolutionized media consumption worldwide. the media & entertainment interest group was established to help affected parties build on these foundations and maintain a competitive advantage. members of the interest group refine the requirements that get adopted by working groups when they develop tomorrow's media standards. the media working group is at the core of media standardization at w3c. on top of maintaining media foundations, the group develops apis to improve client-side media processing and playback features on the web, such as media capabilities, picture-in-picture or media session. the media & entertainment industry is shaping media on the web at w3c through the media & entertainment interest group, the media working group and a few other media related groups such as the audio working group, the second screen working group, or the timed text working group, w3c has brought stakeholders together to help set the direction in which technological progress is made, reinforce core media technologies on the web, create an interoperable ecosystem and build the future of media experiences. now is the time you can influence how media technologies on the web evolve contact w3c to learn more about the benefits of w3c membership, and join w3c members that shape the way media is created, controlled and consumed on the web: broadcasters cable, telecom, multiple service operators chipset and device manufacturers browser and software vendors technology providers and research labs content providers and movie studios … and others! what's next for media and entertainment on the web baseline for media applications tvs are tested and certified as a matter of course. the web platform evolves on a continuous basis. what is the baseline that device implementations need to support at a given point in time to be part of the open web? the web media api community group, initiated by the cta wave project, develops such a baseline. a recurring question about media technologies is whether web browsers should provide native support for additional technologies or whether web browsers should only provide low-level hooks that applications may leverage to implement media features. this includes support for in-band tracks (e.g. see ongoing incubation effort on datacue api), support for caption rendering (e.g. native support for ttml) and synchronized overlays (e.g. bullet chatting), as well as support for media (de-)containerization (natively supported when mse is used, up to applications in webcodecs). audio support media elements in html5 and the web audio api enable audio processing and rendering on the web. they need to be extended e.g. to address advanced spatialization scenarios, in particular with the advent of head mounted displays used in virtual reality. the audio working group discusses version 2.0 of the web audio api. improved media distribution cross-browser support for the media source extensions (mse) standard means adaptive streaming over http has become the main mechanism to distribute media content on the web. the ongoing revision of mse in the media working group adds support for codec switching, e.g. to enable ad-insertion scenarios. other distribution mechanisms are being used or tested to lower distribution latency, improve scaling, and/or reduce streaming costs, including the use of webrtc technologies (e.g. in peer-to-peer cdn) or push mechanisms to enable multicast distribution. the media & entertainment interest group discusses the scope of potential renewed standardization efforts in that area. in parallel, the webtransport working group develops webtransport, a low-latency transport api based on http/3, and the media working group standardizes webcodecs to give applications better control over low-latency media encoding/decoding (as well as access to encoded/decoded frames to enable realtime media processing scenarios). second screen support the presentation api and the remote playback api expose second screens to web applications but interoperability between screens can only be achieved provided the industry agrees on a common set of protocols for second screen support. the second screen working group develops such an open screen protocol. hdr / wide gamut color space support as hdr devices become widespread, the web platform needs to allow use of extended color spaces across the board (in css, canvas and media playback) to take advantage of these capabilities. the color on the web community group was created to explore use cases and inform w3c specification work. immersive web with the advent of head mounted displays and the popularity of 360° and 3d cameras, media scenarios naturally extend to immersive scenarios that give the user additional degrees of freedom. the immersive web working group develops specifications to expose xr devices to web applications. games on the web webassembly exposes c++ power to web applications. the gpu for the web working group develops a modern interface between the web platform and so-called video cards. the webxr device api exposes head-mounted displays. these technologies, combined with the gamepad api, pointer lock, web technologies behind progressive web applications (pwa), and the ability to make payments on the web without having to go through an application store are turning the web into a competitive platform for immersive and highly performant games. the games community group explores technical gaps for games on the web. upcoming events media meetings during tpac virtual event, oct. 2021 workshop on wide color gamut and high dynamic range for the web virtual event, jun. 2021 past events media meetings during tpac virtual event, oct. 2020 media meetings at tpac fukuoka, japan, sept. 2019 workshop on web games redmond, wa, usa, jun. 2019 media meetings at tpac lyon, france, oct. 2018 media meetings at tpac lyon, france, oct. 2018 media meetings at tpac burlingame, ca, usa, nov. 2017 w3c @ ces 2017 las vegas, usa, jan. 2017 media meetings at tpac lisbon, portugal, sept. 2016 media meetings at tpac sapporo, japan, oct. 2015 media meetings at tpac california, usa, oct. 2014 web and tv workshop munich, germany, mar. 2014 w3c @ ces las vegas, usa, jan. 2014 media meetings at tpac shenzhen, china, nov. 2013 web and tv workshop california, usa, sept. 2011 web and tv workshop berlin, germany, feb. 2011 web on tv workshop tokyo, japan, sept. 2010 footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq donate site map feedback (archive) w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply.