participate → the art of consensus this guidebook is the collected wisdom of the w3c group chairs, team contacts and other contributors. this page is public also on this page → start • starting a group • running a group • deliverables • speaking about your work • reference • advice • about the guidebook chair training modules none upcoming at this time previous: using github for w3c specifications, philippe le hégaret, 17 december 2015 (minutes). horizontal review (member-only), virginie galindo, 13 october 2015 (minutes, recording) and 20 october 2015(minutes) slides in ppt, slides in pdf] - see also blog post for keeping your reviewer on track. focus and productivity (member-only), arnaud le hors, 29 january 2015 (minutes, recording) focus and productivity (member-only), by arnaud le hors, 23 october 2014 (minutes) the human dimension (member-only), charles mccathie nevile, 17 june 2014 (minutes) tools, ralph swick, thursday, 24 april 2014, 10-noon et (minutes) the abcs of w3c, philippe le hégaret, january 2014 (minutes, audio) current and upcoming publishing moratoria for 2nd half of 2021 december 23 - 31: end of year planning a group meeting? ask your team contact to update the w3c calendar using the events tool (team and offices-only) nearby w3c chair buddy system list of groups mailing list archive search databases: groups calendars: face-to-face meetings mailing list archives: chairs (member-only), w3c-tools (member-only) starting a group recommendation track readiness best practices create a charter; how to incubate w3c community & business groups w3c team support for w3c community groups (in which cases can cgs get webex and github access from w3c) w3c workshops for starting incubation how to transition work from a community group to a working group join a group (see also invited expert policy) if you need a blog, wiki, github repository, or mailing list, ask your team contact. ...more advice on roles in a group running a group w3c chair buddy system (volunteer experienced chairs can mentor other chairs) check out our working groups and interest groups dashboards to navigate through what we know about them. the project management team only maintains a collection of links and tools to keep track. moderating (facilitating) meetings creating and delivering effective presentations running a meeting (especially a teleconference) on irc (web client): scribe 101: taking meeting minutes using w3c irc tools quick start guide more details on setting up tools for managing an agenda, generating minutes, and updating issues lists scheduling teleconferences group calendars holidays wiki to help planning wg work around recurring holidays individual irc tools ("bots"): zakim for queue management, start and end meeting rrsagent for minutes management hints for rescuing minutes when rrsagent is absent predicting milestones, use our milestones calculator to help with dates. face-to-face meetings continuity of operations under travel restrictions host a face-to-face meeting and standard venue arrangements for w3c events: conferences, workshops, and meetings policy regarding non-disclosure agreements and w3c meetings w3c travel policy affecting staff contacts issue tracking: use github to track issues through mail and the web wbs for questionnaires people management humandimension (a chair training module) code of ethics and professional conduct and procedures to assist all parties when issues arise. we have guidelines to suspend or remove participants from groups. see more on the positive work environment home page antitrust and competition guidance ipr policies ...more advice on meetings, decisions, issue tracking specification development w3c editors home page and specifically the style for group-internal drafts advancement on the recommendation track: w3c process for busy people section 6.1 technical reports of the w3c process transition requirements for all w3c maturity levels (first public draft, last call, cr, pr, rec, etc.). try also our step finder and look at milestones calculator. request wide review at least 2-3 months before cr, to allow time for discussion and rework. this includes requesting horizontal reviews. pubrules (publication requirements) and links to related policies (e.g., namespaces, mime type registration, version management, and in-place modifications) see also pubrules issue management march 2017: obsoleting and rescinding w3c specifications normative references; considerations the director takes into account when evaluating normative references processing of formal objections publications can only happen on tuesdays and thursdays (member-only archive of announcement), unless you use the automated publication system september 2015: w3c comm team no longer post homepage news stories for regular wds publications, unless explicitly requested at publication request. w3c documents and license related to api definitions, code samples, or examples discussion about specifications tooling and versioning on spec-prod@w3.org ...more advice on specification development speaking about your work blogs, articles, press interviews: working group participants, tag members, w3c staff are among the world's experts in web technologies and their impacts. give heads-up, share relevant work, things you author, or press enquiries, by writing to the w3c comm team (w3t-pr@w3.org) about how you may attribute your work (or not) to w3c. use the upcoming talks form (w3c group participants, members of the w3c team, and office staff); talks publicized on w3c home page, public weekly newsletter, w3c social media. press release testimonial guidelines creating and delivering effective presentations how to make presentations accessible to all reference tools in this section and the previous are in wide use and are supported by the systems team (ask for help on sysreq@w3.org) and comm team. for service enhancements or new systems projects, please contact w3t-sys@w3.org with a detailed description of your needs. outages and scheduled operations appear on the w3c system status page. see collected wisdom below for less mature tools. patent policy w3c patent policy commentary: faq, summary, and business benefits patent policy information about groups, disclosures what's in it for chairs? ...more questions? contact the psig test suites start with web-platform-tests, home for the open web test suites (including w3c ones). all wpt contributions are licensed under the terms of the 3-clause bsd license. for non-wpt test suites, see policies and licenses for contribution of test cases ...more questions about the testing infrastructure? contact public-test-infra@w3.org process operative w3c process document guidelines to suspend or remove participants from groups guidelines for disciplinary action antitrust and competition guidance ongoing process issues. discussion happens in the context of the w3c process community group. ...more questions? contact the advisory board systems and tools markup validators, link checker, spell checker, html diff tool, specref, normative references checker, bibliography generator, and more tools see also: tools wiki and w3c editors home page mailing list archive of tools announcements (member-only) predefined acls edit your contact information or affiliation start with modern tooling for ongoing tooling issues. mailing lists mailing list audit (who is subscribed, information about lists) (member-only) smartlist remote maintainers guide spam filtering options mailing lists search service guidelines and policies antitrust and competition guidance charter extensions external funding invited experts policy ipr policies ndas and w3c meetings normative references guidelines processing of formal objections continuity of operations under travel restrictions note on member submissions: per section "scope of member submissions" of the process document, "when a technology overlaps in scope with the work of a chartered working group, members should participate in the working group and contribute the technology to the group's process rather than seek publication through the member submission process." read more about how to send a member submission request (member-only). collected wisdom, advice many of these resources were contributed by your colleagues; we invite you to write down and share your experiences as well. discussion of issues that groups face take place on the chairs mailing list (member-only archive). you may also find chairs meetings back to 1997 an interesting source of wisdom. advice on specification development most popular editing tools: bikeshed, respec w3c manual of style tips for getting to recommendation faster github w3c on github using github for w3c specifications (slides) using github for spec work (documentation) github repository manager: one interface to find all group github contributors and the ipr status github repo activity digest (member-only) adds preview and diff links to pull requests (config helper) roles chair's role; guidance for multiple chairs editor's role (member-only though could be made public) editor, author, contributor policies team contact's role liaison's role. note: per section "liaisons" of the process document, liaisons must be coordinated by the team due to requirements for public communication; patent, copyright, and other ipr policies; confidentiality agreements; and mutual membership agreements. advisory committee representative (member-only) guidelines for communicating as a member of a w3c elected body advice on meetings, decisions, issue tracking esw wiki patterns: midwestweeklyagenda, meetingrecords, trackingissues the seven sins of deadly meetings historical w3c xml specification dtd (xmlspec), by norman walsh. xmlspec diff generation qa resources: specification guidelines, handbook for qa in groups, and qa framework primer html slidy for slide presentations about the guidebook this guidebook is intended to complement the w3c membership agreement and the w3c process. this index page is public, although a small number of resources linked from this page may be visible only to the w3c membership or staff. you are expected to be familiar with the parts of this guidebook that affect your work. working group chairs should get a "tour" from their team contact. then take a look again, for example, if you're going to hold a face-to-face meeting; read the section on meetings and work with its owner, susan, to be sure you understand what's written there, and to record any valuable knowledge you pick up along the way. as editor of the guidebook, i will do my best to see that it gets better over time. this does not mean that i do all the editing myself! i collaborate with other collaborators who signed and dated the pages they maintain. and we need to know when information needs updating. note: not all pages are maintained with the same frequency. some may be quite outdated. please add your issues to the github repository of this guidebook if you have any specific comments and/or proposals to improve this guidebook. philippe le hégaret, guidebook editor plh@w3.org yep, it's on github.