skip to content change text size or colors all translations web accessibility initiative wai strategies, standards, resources to make the web accessible to people with disabilities menu get involved about w3c wai search: accessibility fundamentals planning & policies design & develop test & evaluate teach & advocate standards/guidelines w3c web accessibility initiative home making the web accessible strategies, standards, and supporting resources to help you make the web more accessible to people with disabilities. w3c the world wide web consortium (w3c) develops international standards for the web: html, css, and many more. wai the w3c web accessibility initiative (wai) develops standards and support materials to help you understand and implement accessibility. you you can use w3c wai resources to make your websites, applications, and other digital creations more accessible and usable to everyone. hide section news for review: accessibility of remote meetings - first public working draft (2021-10-14) the working draft of accessibility of remote meetings is available for review and comment. this potential resource relates to how to make your presentations accessible to all and making audio and video media accessible. we welcome input on how this information can better help vendors, organizations, and individuals make remote meetings more accessible to people with disabilities. for more information, see: e-mail on remote meetings and blog on remote meetings for review: natural language interface accessibility user requirements - first public working draft (2021-10-12) natural language interface accessibility user requirements("naur")working draft is available for review and comment. this document outlines accessibility user needs, requirements, and scenarios for natural language interfaces. a natural language interface is a user interface in which the user and the system communicate via a natural (human) language. the user provides input as sentences via speech or other input, and the system generates responses as sentences delivered by speech, text, or another modality. for more information, see: e-mail on naur and blog on naur updates in-progress: wcag 3.0 working draft (2021-06-08) some updates are available to w3c accessibility guidelines (wcag) 3.0 working draft. for an introduction, links, and latest status, see the wcag 3 introduction. for specific infomation on these updates, see e-mail updates in-progress: wcag 3.0 working draft. invitation: wai-coop first open meeting (2021-06-01) you are invited to the wai-coop first open meeting, online on 23 june 2021. we encourage participation from people interested in: digital accessibility implementation in europe and internationally; guidance on available web accessibility training, tools, and resources; and exchanges on the european union (eu) web accessibility directive (wad). agenda, logistics, and registration information is in the meeting page. this meeting is free, and registration is required. rtc accessibility user requirements (raur) note published (2021-05-25) rtc accessibility user requirements (raur) is published as a working group note. real-time communication (rtc) provides real-time peer to peer audio, video, and data exchange directly between supported user agents. this enables instantaneous applications for video and audio calls, text chat, file exchange, screen sharing, and gaming. raur describes various accessibility related user needs, requirements, and scenarios for real-time communication (rtc) applications. these user needs should drive accessibility requirements in various related specifications and the overall architecture that enables rtc. accessibility translations: getting the 'global' in gaad (2021-05-20) all wai translations now lists translations in 35 languages. thanks to the translators. (if you know anyone who might be interested in contributing to more accessibility translations, please point them to: translating wai resources) for review: specification for spoken presentation in html (2021-05-18) specification for spoken presentation in html working draft is ready for review. this document is part of w3c work on pronunciation to provide normative specifications and best practices guidance so that text-to-speech (tts) synthesis can properly pronounce html content. this draft specification describes two possible technical approaches for author-controlled pronunciation. w3c is seeking more input on these approaches, particularly from content authors and implementors. please send comments by 18 june 2021. see all news subscribe to wai news see what we have for you: get resources for… content writers designers developers evaluators, testers managers policy makers trainers, educators web users, people with disabilities, advocates other languages training course: digital accessibility foundations the free "introduction to web accessibility" online course provides the foundation you need to make your digital technology accessible. it's designed for: technical and non-technical learners developers, designers, ux, writers, managers, advocates professionals, instructors, students about the free online course web accessibility perspectives: video captions captions are the audio information in text that is synchronized with the audio and visual content. captions are called "subtitles" in some regions. video captions are essential for people with disabilities and benefit everyone in a variety of situations. more about video captions see all perspectives videos featured resource: making audio and video media accessible this media resource helps you understand and create captions/subtitles, audio description of visual information, descriptive transcripts, and sign language for media. it introduces user experiences and benefits to organizations. making audio and video media accessible sponsors and funders wai is supported in part by the following organizations. thank you! hp ibm corporation european commission (ec) horizon 2020 (780057) (wai-tools project) european commission (ec) horizon 2020 (822245) (wai-guide project) ford foundation, technology and society program (wai expanding access project) us department of health and human services, national institute for disability, independent living and rehabilitation research, contract hhsp23301500054 (wai-core 2015 project) wai welcomes additional sponsors. previews of this site are powered by netlify. back to top w3c web accessibility initiative (wai) strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the web accessible to people with disabilities. twitter feed youtube get news in email copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) permission to use wai material. contact wai site map news archive accessibility statement translations resources for roles