w3c standards participate membership about w3c site navigation about w3c w3c mission facts about w3c press and analysts sponsorships and donations jobs and fellowships contact help and faq skip w3c » about w3c » w3c mission w3c mission on this page → open standards principles • design principles • vision the w3c mission is to lead the world wide web to its full potential by developing protocols and guidelines that ensure the long-term growth of the web. below we discuss important aspects of this mission, all of which further w3c's vision of one web. open standards principles on 29 august 2012 five leading global organizations jointly signed an agreement to affirm and adhere to a set of principles in support of the modern paradigm for standards; an open and collectively empowering model that will help radically improve the way people around the world develop new technologies and innovate for humanity. learn more about openstand: the modern paradigm for standards. design principles the following design principles guide w3c's work. web for all the social value of the web is that it enables human communication, commerce, and opportunities to share knowledge. one of w3c's primary goals is to make these benefits available to all people, whatever their hardware, software, network infrastructure, native language, culture, geographical location, or physical or mental ability. learn more about: web accessibility initiative internationalization web on everything the number of different kinds of devices that can access the web has grown immensely. mobile phones, smart phones, personal digital assistants, interactive television systems, voice response systems, kiosks and even certain domestic appliances can all access the web. learn more about: web of devices mobile web initiative browsers and other agents vision w3c's vision for the web involves participation, sharing knowledge, and thereby building trust on a global scale. web for rich interaction the web was invented as a communications tool intended to allow anyone, anywhere to share information. for many years, the web was a "read-only" tool for many. blogs and wikis brought more authors to the web, and social networking emerged from the flourishing market for content and personalized web experiences. w3c standards have supported this evolution thanks to strong architecture and design principles. learn more about: web design and applications web architecture web of data and services some people view the web as a giant repository of linked data while others as a giant set of services that exchange messages. the two views are complementary, and which to use often depends on the application. learn more about: essential xml technologies semantic web web of services web of trust the web has transformed the way we communicate with each other. in doing so, it has also modified the nature of our social relationships. people now "meet on the web" and carry out commercial and personal relationships, in some cases without ever meeting in person. w3c recognizes that trust is a social phenomenon, but technology design can foster trust and confidence. as more activity moves on-line, it will become even more important to support complex interactions among parties around the globe. learn more about: semantic web xml security, web of services security privacy footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq donate site map feedback w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® ( mit , ercim , keio, beihang) usage policies apply.