skip to content covid-19 our work our approach opportunities latest search google.org our mission we bring the best of google to help solve some of humanity’s biggest challenges — combining funding, innovation, and technical expertise to support underserved communities and provide opportunity for everyone. broadening our covid-19 support in india building on our $100m+ commitment to global pandemic relief efforts, google.org will provide an additional $15.5 million to build oxygen generation plants and train healthcare workers in rural india. june 16, 2021 empowering women and girls to reach their full economic potential we're giving $25 million to 34 organizations creating economic opportunities for women and girls around the world. november 8, 2021 these 11 organizations are building a greener europe the €10 million google.org impact challenge on climate funds bold ideas to use technology to accelerate europe’s progress toward a greener, more resilient future. meet the 11 organizations that will receive funding. april 13, 2021 taking action these challenges will require long-term investments of time and effort. we are committed to being a part of the solution. $12 million and 10,000 pro bono hours committed to racial justice since 2015, we’ve given $32 million in funding to organizations that use data science and innovative new approaches to advance racial justice. learn more $100 million and 50,000 pro bono hours committed to covid-19 we’re supporting effective solutions throughout the course of this pandemic — from immediate relief to long term recovery and future preparedness. learn more our approach we connect innovative nonprofits and social enterprises with google’s resources to accelerate their impact. view our approach follow us twitter opens in new window youtube opens in new window google.org home covid-19 our work our approach opportunities other google initiatives google for nonprofits google for education grow with google sustainability crisis response google ai google news initiative privacy terms help