skip to main content standards participate membership about w3c groups overview of w3c groups working groups interest groups community groups business groups technical architecture group advisory board task forces organizations member-only login about w3c groups a variety of w3c groups enable w3c to pursue its mission through the creation of web standards, guidelines, and supporting materials. community and business groups offer more ways for innovators to bring work to w3c. working groups working groups typically produce deliverables (e.g., standards track technical reports, software, test suites, and reviews of the deliverables of other groups). list of working groups interest groups the primary goal of an interest group is to bring together people who wish to evaluate potential web technologies and policies. an interest group is a forum for the exchange of ideas. list of interest groups community and business groups w3c has created community and business groups to meet the needs of a growing community of web stakeholders. community groups enable anyone to socialize their ideas for the web at the w3c for possible future standardization. business groups provide companies anywhere in the world with access to the expertise and community needed to develop open web technology. new w3c working groups can then build mature web standards on top of best of the experimental work, and businesses and other organizations can make the most out of w3c's open web platform in their domain of interest. learn more about community and business groups list of community groups list of business groups permanent groups in addition to these groups, w3c has chartered two permanent groups: technical architecture group (tag) w3c created the tag to document and build consensus around principles of web architecture and to interpret and clarify these principles when necessary. the tag also helps to resolve issues involving general web architecture brought to the tag, and helps coordinate cross-technology architecture developments inside and outside w3c. some tag participants are elected by by the w3c members, others are appointed by the w3c director. more information about the technical architecture group advisory board (ab) the advisory board provides ongoing guidance to the team on issues of strategy, management, legal matters, process, and conflict resolution. the advisory board also serves the members by tracking issues raised between advisory committee meetings, soliciting member comments on such issues, and proposing actions to resolve these issues. the advisory board manages the evolution of the process document. ab participants are elected by the w3c members. more information about the advisory board copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply.