w3c standards participate membership about w3c site navigation web for all accessibility internationalization web security privacy web and industry automotive and transportation entertainment (tv and broadcasting) publishing web payments web of data web and telecommunications web of things w3c work groups code of ethics and professional conduct participant guidebook w3c community groups get a w3c account dev resources api validators w3c cheatsheet more open source software web platform tests w3cx (training) skip news w3c opens technical architecture group (tag) election 16 november 2021 | archive the w3c advisory committee, having nominated four individuals, is invited today to vote until 14 december 2021 for three seats in the w3c technical architecture group (tag) election. the tag is a special working group within the w3c, chartered under the w3c process document, with stewardship of the web architecture. some aspects of its mission include: to document and build consensus around principles of web architecture and to interpret and clarify these principles when necessary; to resolve issues involving general web architecture brought to the tag; to help coordinate cross-technology architecture developments inside and outside w3c. job: automotive and transportation champion (usa, china, japan) 15 november 2021 | archive we are excited to announce an open position (possibly part-time) : automotive & transportation champion, based in the usa or china, or japan. this is an opportunity for a global leader to drive the overall strategy of applying open web standards to the automotive & transportation ecosystem. the champion is a thought leader who has a deep understanding of the needs of the automotive industry and a working understanding of web technology. the champion engages with other automotive thought leaders from w3c members and with technologists in w3c. by bringing these groups together, the champion identifies new technology needs for the industry and identifies technical and business approaches to satisfy those needs. authorized translation of wcag 2.1 in arabic 12 november 2021 | archive the world wide web consortium published the authorized arabic translation of web content accessibility guidelines (wcag) 2.1, مبادئ النفاذ إلى محتوى الويب (wcag2.1). the lead translation organization for this authorized translation was the mada center, qatar. translations in other languages are listed in wcag 2 translations. w3c web accessibility initiative (wai) particularly encourages the development of authorized translations of wcag 2.1 and other technical specifications to facilitate their adoption and implementation internationally. read about the policy for w3c authorized translations. last call for review of proposed corrections: verifiable credentials data model v1.1 recommendation 9 november 2021 | archive the verifiable credentials working group has proposed corrections to the w3c recommendation of verifiable credentials data model v1.1. credentials are a part of our daily lives; driver’s licenses are used to assert that we are capable of operating a motor vehicle, university degrees can be used to assert our level of education, and government-issued passports enable us to travel between countries. this specification provides a mechanism to express these sorts of credentials on the web in a way that is cryptographically secure, privacy respecting, and machine-verifiable. comments, including implementation experience, are welcome via github through 18 january 2022. first public working draft: imsc hypothetical render model 9 november 2021 | archive the timed text working group has published a first public working draft of imsc hypothetical render model. this specification specifies an hypothetical render model (hrm) that measures the complexity of caption and subtitle documents that conform to the imsc recommendation, so that they do not overload players. for more information, see the blog post keeping the complexity of imsc documents under control. working group note: epub 3 structural semantics vocabulary 1.1 4 november 2021 | archive the epub 3 working group has just published the working group note of epub 3 structural semantics vocabulary 1.1. this vocabulary, a part of epub 3, defines a set of properties relating to the description of structural semantics of written works. structural semantics add additional meaning about the specific structural purpose an html (or svg) element plays. the epub:type attribute, defined in epub 3.3, is used to express domain-specific semantics in epub content documents and media overlay documents, with the structural information it carries complementing the underlying vocabulary. the applied semantics refine the meaning of their containing elements without changing their nature for assistive technologies, as happens when using the similar role attribute in html. the attribute does not enhance the accessibility of the content, in other words, only provides hints about the purpose. this documents defines the default vocabulary that can be used with the epub:type attribute. w3c updates its process document 2 november 2021 | archive the w3c membership approved the 2 november 2021 w3c process document, which takes effect today. notable changes include: registries track: introduced a specialized track for maintaining registries at w3c. w3c statements: notes endorsed by w3c as a whole, through an advisory committee review. tag and ab publications: the w3c technical architecture group (tag) and advisory board (ab) are now allowed to publish notes. track separation: recommendations, notes+statements, registries are on separated publication tracks to make it easier to know what the intended end-state of a document might be. tooling policy: defined guidelines for the tools that groups use for publication and collaboration, to ensure long-lived access to w3c publications, and to enable access and effective participation by anyone. you can read more about all changes since the 15 september 2020 process document, read the complete disposition of comments, or peruse the diff. this document was developed between the w3c advisory board and the public revising w3c process community group. comments and feedback on the new process document may be sent as issues in the public github repository. w3c strategic highlights, october 2021 19 october 2021 | archive w3c released today to the public the october 2021 edition of the w3c strategic highlights. this report highlights recent work w3c members and the public do at the web consortium to enhance the web platform, work towards its growth and strength so that the web remains a tool that has and will continue to accelerate scientific cooperation and discoveries, a social means to bridge families and friends, a way to learn online and grow skills, an instrument to conduct successful business, and much more. you will find in this semi-annual report updates in key areas that are core to the web platform, but also how w3c meets the needs of industry and society as a whole, how the future of web standards is determined, and the latest information on web for all and outreach to the world. more news… talks and appearances 2021-11-30 (30 nov) live panel: iot security – acting ahead of the threat by michael mccool, intel iot techexpo europe 2021 (virtual show) events 2021-11-30 (30 nov) – 2021-12-01 ( 1 dec) iot techexpo europe 2021 (virtual show) (online event) about w3c the world wide web consortium (w3c) is an international community that develops open standards to ensure the long-term growth of the web. donations become a friend of w3c: support the w3c mission and free developer tools. w3c blog w3c co-signs the global encryption day statement 21 october 2021 by wendy seltzer accessibility of remote meetings – call for review 20 october 2021 by joshue o connor natural language interface accessibility user requirements – call for review 20 october 2021 by joshue o connor jobs and fellowship at w3c automotive & transportation champion web accessibility development and operations lead featured w3c member web accessibility and w3c standards (video) watch our video on web accessibility and w3c standards! footer navigation navigation home standards participate membership about w3c contact w3c contact help and faq sponsor / donate site map feedback w3c updates copyright © 2021 w3c ® (mit, ercim, keio, beihang) usage policies apply.